MUNICIPAL CODE OF CHICAGO

Published by Order of the City Council, 1990
Current through Council Journal of December 14, 2023

 

Published by:
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
800-445-5588
www.amlegal.com

PREFACE

   This Code was reprinted in 2007 and is a codification of city
ordinances of a general and permanent nature.

   Numbering System

   The numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in
many state and municipal codes. Each section number consists of three
(3) component parts separated by a hyphen, the figure before the hyphen
representing the title number, the figure next after the hyphen
representing the chapter and the figure after the hyphen indicating the
position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the first section of
Title 1 is numbered 1-4-010. Under this system each section is
identified with its chapter and, at the same time, new sections or even
whole chapters can be inserted in their proper places, simply by using
the decimal system for amendments. By way of illustration: if new
material consisting of one section that would logically come between
sections 1-4 and 1-6 is desired to be added, such new section would be
numbered 1-5. New chapters, articles and divisions may be included in
the same way. Articles and divisions may also be placed at the end of
the chapter or article where they belong.

   Index

   The index has been prepared with the greatest of care. Each
particular item has been placed under several headings, some of the
headings being couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology
and still others in language generally used by municipal officials and
employees. There are numerous cross references within the index which
stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which
he is interested.

   Looseleaf Supplements

   A special feature of this Code to which the attention of the user is
directed is the looseleaf system of binding and supplementation service.
With this system, the Code will be kept up-to-date periodically. Upon
the final passage of amendatory ordinances, they will be properly edited
and the appropriate page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new
pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the Code, with
instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the
obsolete pages. Each such amendment, when incorporated into this Code,
may be cited as a part hereof, as provided in the Adopting Ordinance.

   The successful maintenance of this Code up-to-date at all times will
depend largely upon the holder of the volume. As revised sheets are
received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have
the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is
strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be
inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in
addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical
reference purposes.

   Acknowledgments

   The city authorized the reprinting in 2006, and these volumes are
issued as a replacement copy to replace all existing copies of the Code.
The publisher is most grateful for the efforts of Tim Barton, John
Bjork, Scott Burgh, Monica Carranza, Glenn Dempsey, Robert Dybas, Robert
Fahlstrom, Vince Fontana, Jeff Levine, Rich Lewis, Peter Polacek, Pat
Ryan, Elizabeth Scanlan, and Pete Ternes, all of whom participated in
this project for the city. Additionally, the publisher is grateful for
the efforts of the bureaus of plumbing, electrical, refrigeration, and
ventilation, Laurie Dittman from MOPD, Javier Ceballos from DOE, and
Richard Gregory from Vertex Elevator, all of whom reviewed the technical
aspects of Title 18, Building Infrastructure. It is hoped that their
efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code which will be
a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.

American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
January 1, 2008

ADOPTING ORDINANCE

(Council Journal of 6-27-90, p. 17764)

   Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Chicago:

   Section 1. This ordinance, consisting of titles 1 through 17,
inclusive, shall be known as the Municipal Code of Chicago and shall be
treated as a new and original comprehensive ordinance, completely
superseding the Municipal Code of Chicago adopted August 30, 1939, and
subsequent code amendments adopted prior to February 28, 1990, with the
exception of the Chicago Zoning Ordinance and amendments thereto.

   Section 2. The Corporation Counsel shall advise and assist the City
Clerk in renumbering chapters and sections described in ordinances
passed after February 7, 1990, amending the Municipal Code as then in
effect, in order to assure that they comport with the numbering system
of this Code. The revised numbers of those chapters and sections as
determined by the City Clerk and the Corporation Counsel are hereby
adopted for general use.

   Section 3. The Municipal Code of Chicago shall take effect and be in
force from and after its passage.

   Section 4. The City Clerk shall keep two copies of this Code. These
copies shall be printed, pasted, or otherwise mounted on paper
sufficiently thick and tough to withstand heavy usage, and preserved by
the City Clerk in a book or binder in loose leaf form, or in such other
form as the City Clerk may consider most expedient, so that all
amendments to the code and all general ordinances hereafter passed may
be inserted in their appropriate places in such volumes, and all
sections of this Code or ordinances repealed from time to time may be
extracted therefrom for the purpose of maintaining the two copies in
such condition that they will show all general ordinances passed up to
date at any time to serve as a current and ready reference.

   In determining whether any ordinance hereafter passed, or any part
thereof, shall be inserted into the Code, and in determining the form,
title, chapter and section in which it shall be inserted, the City Clerk
shall be guided by the advice of the Corporation Counsel.

   Section 5. Revisions of this Code shall be prepared and published at
intervals not exceeding six months to reflect any changes in the
Municipal Code during such period.

   Section 6. No officer or employee except aldermen (as amended on its
face) of the City shall issue or distribute as a publication of the City
or any or its agencies, departments or officers any printed matter
purporting to be an excerpt or quotation from this Code without first
having submitted the printed matter to the Corporation Counsel for
examination and approval as to form and accuracy.

   Section 7. Sufficient copies of this Code shall be deposited with the
Municipal Reference Librarian for general public reference and use.
Sufficient copies shall be distributed to the Mayor, the aldermen, the
City Clerk, the City Treasurer and the heads of the various agencies and
departments of city government for their respective use. With respect to
any other person or entity, this Code shall not be considered a
publication of the City for purposes of distribution pursuant to Section
2-64-110.

   The Mayor may reciprocate courtesies of other cities and governments
by presenting to them a copy of this Code bound at City expense in such
form as the Mayor deems suitable.

   Section 8. Each section number of this Code shall consist of three
component parts separated by dashes. The figure before the first dash
shall refer to the title number; the figure following the first dash
shall refer to the position of the chapter within a title; and the
figure following the second dash shall refer to the position of the
section within its chapter.

   No officer or employee except aldermen (as amended on its face) of
the city shall issue any written material containing any section of the
Municipal Code numbered differently than as numbered herein; and no
section number shall be changed by any such officer or employee in
drafting any amendment to this Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provision, the various departments and agencies of the city government
may continue to use notices, citations and other documents containing
references to chapter and section numbers of the Municipal Code as in
effect prior to passage of this Code until December 31, 1990.

   Section 9. Unless the context requires other interpretations, the
following words and terms are defined for purposes of this Code as
follows:

   (a)   City – City of Chicago;

   (b)   State – State of Illinois;

   (c)   County – County of Cook;

   (d)   City Council – The City Council of the City of Chicago;

   (e)   Person – Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership,
association, joint venture, corporation or other legal entity, in his or
its own capacity or as administrator, conservator, guardian, executor,
trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the court.
Whenever the word "person" is used in any section of this Code
prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships, associations
or joint ventures, the word shall include the members thereof, and as
applied to corporations shall include the officers, agents or employees
thereof who are responsible for any violation of said section;

   (f)   Public Way – Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other
public thoroughfare;

   (g)   Code – The Municipal Code of Chicago as amended from time to
time;

   (h)   Building Code or building provisions of this Code – All those
chapters contained in Title 13;

   (i)   Electrical Code or electrical regulations of this Code – Title
14; and

   (j)   Fire Code or fire regulations of this Code – Title 15.

   Section 10. Whenever any words in any section of this Code import the
plural number, the singular shall be deemed to be included, and whenever
the singular shall be used, it shall be deemed to include the plural.

   Whenever the masculine gender is used in this Code, females as well
as males shall be deemed to be included.

   Words in the present tense shall be deemed to include the future
tense.

   The words "written" and "in writing" may include printing.

   The word "shall" as used in this Code is mandatory.

   Headings provided in the various sections of this Code are for
convenience and reference only and should not be considered part of the
text of any section.

   Section 11. Reference to any section of this Code shall be understood
to refer to and include the penalty provision relating thereto, unless
otherwise expressly provided. In case of the amendment of any section of
this Code containing provisions for which a penalty is provided in
another section, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be
held to relate to the section so amended, whether re-enacted in the
amendatory ordinance or not, unless such penalty is specifically
repealed therein.

   Section 12. Whenever in any section of this Code the doing of any act
or the omission to do any act or duty is declared to be a violation
thereof, and there shall be no fine or penalty declared for such
violation, any person who shall be convicted of any such violation shall
be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 for each such
violation.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, a
penalty imposed for the violation of any provision of this Code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant perform
reasonable public service. Such public service may include, but shall
not be limited to, the removal of litter on public property or the
maintenance of public facilities.

   Section 13. Whenever in this Code a minimum but no maximum fine or
penalty is imposed, the court may in its discretion fine the offender
any sum of money exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so fixed, but not
exceeding the sum of $500.00.

   Section 14. In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or
is created by different clauses or sections of this Code, the
Corporation Counsel may elect under which to proceed; but not more than
one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.

   Section 15. The comprehensive zoning amendment passed by the City
Council on May 29, 1957, as amended (Chicago Zoning Ordinance) is hereby
incorporated into this Code and designated Title 17.

   Section 16. Unless it expressly provides otherwise, no new ordinance
that amends or repeals a prior ordinance shall be construed to affect
any offense or act committed, or action, penalty or claim arising under
the prior ordinance, except that any proceedings after the effective
date of any such new ordinance shall conform, insofar as practicable, to
the ordinance in effect at the time of the proceedings. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be
applied to any judgment entered after the new ordinance takes effect.

   This section shall extend to all repeals, whether express or by
implication, and regardless of whether contained in an ordinance making
any new provision upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.

   Section 17. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city therein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting
the liability of any person; or as waiving any right of the city under
any section or provision of the Municipal Code of Chicago existing at
the time of the passage of this ordinance.

   Section 18. No ordinance that repeals an ordinance repealing a former
ordinance, clause, or provision shall be construed to revive the
original ordinance, clause or provision.

   Section 19. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the
true intent and meaning of the City Council may be fully carried out.

   Section 20. If any part, section, sentence, clause or application of
this Code shall be adjudged invalid, void and of no effect for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of the titles, chapters, sections or other provisions of this
Code, or their application to other circumstances.

TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS

   Ch. 1-4   Code Adoption – Organization

   Ch. 1-8   Corporate Seal and Emblems

   Ch. 1-12   Official City Time

   Ch. 1-14   Official Neighborhoods and Community Areas

   Ch. 1-16   Nuclear Weapon Free Zone

   Ch. 1-19   Debt Due and Owing to the City

   Ch. 1-20   Cost Recovery – Liability for Costs of Providing Services

   Ch. 1-21   False Statements

   Ch. 1-22   False Claims

   Ch. 1-23   Qualifications Relating to City Business or City Benefits

   Ch. 1-24   Reserved

   Ch. 1-25   Reserved

CHAPTER 1-4
CODE ADOPTION – ORGANIZATION*

* Editor's note – Prior history for Chapter 1-4 includes Sections 1-1
through 1-21; Ordinance passed on 4-6-90, Coun. J. p. 13720; Ordinance
passed on 6-27-90, Coun. J. p. 17764.

1-4-010   Municipal Code of Chicago adopted.

1-4-020   Adoption of chapter and section numbers.

1-4-030   Effective date.

1-4-040   Administrative copies – City clerk powers and duties.

1-4-050   Code revisions – Publication.

1-4-060   Publication of Code – Conditions.

1-4-070   Distribution of Code.

1-4-080   Numbering of Code sections – References to former Code
provisions.

1-4-090   Definitions for Code provisions.

1-4-100   Interpretation of language.

1-4-110   References to sections include penalty references –
Exceptions.

1-4-120   Penalty for violation of Code.

1-4-125   Restitution – License or permit violations.

1-4-130   Maximum fine or penalty.

1-4-140   Offenses having two penalties.

1-4-145   Reserved.

1-4-150   Zoning ordinance adopted.

1-4-160   Scope of repeal.

1-4-170   Reference to statutes.

1-4-180   Repeal shall not revive any ordinance.

1-4-190   Liberal construction of provisions.

1-4-200   Severability.

1-4-010 Municipal Code of Chicago adopted.

   This ordinance, consisting of Titles 1 through 18, inclusive, shall
be known as the "Municipal Code of Chicago" and shall be treated as a
new and original comprehensive ordinance, completely superseding the
Municipal Code of Chicago adopted August 30, 1939, and subsequent code
amendments adopted prior to February 28, 1990, with the exception of the
Chicago Zoning Ordinance and amendments thereto.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, §
3.1)

1-4-020 Adoption of chapter and section numbers.

   The corporation counsel shall advise and assist the city clerk in
renumbering chapters and sections described in ordinances passed after
February 7, 1990, amending the Municipal Code as then in effect, in
order to assure that they comport with the numbering system of this
Code. The revised numbers of those chapters and sections as determined
by the city clerk and the corporation counsel are hereby adopted for
general use.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-030 Effective date.

   The Municipal Code of Chicago shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-040 Administrative copies – City clerk powers and duties.

   The city clerk shall keep at least one current printed copy of this
Code and shall maintain at least one location at City Hall where the
public may access the Code.

   In determining whether any ordinance hereafter passed, or any part
thereof, shall be inserted into the Code, and in determining the form,
title, chapter and section in which it shall be inserted, the city clerk
shall be guided by the advice of the corporation counsel.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, §
1)

1-4-050 Code revisions – Publication.

   Revisions of this Code shall be prepared and published at intervals
not exceeding six months to reflect any changes in the Municipal Code
during such period.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-060 Publication of Code – Conditions.

   All printed material issued or distributed as a publication of the
city that includes an excerpt or quotation from this Code shall be
published subject to the understanding that the Municipal Code of
Chicago is subject to change without notice.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, §
1)

1-4-070 Distribution of Code.

   Sufficient copies of this Code shall be deposited with the Chicago
Public Library for general public reference and use. Sufficient copies
shall be distributed to the mayor, the aldermen, the city clerk, the
city treasurer and the heads of the various agencies and departments of
city government for their respective use.

   The mayor may reciprocate courtesies of other cities and governments
by presenting to them a copy of this Code bound at city expense in such
form as the mayor deems suitable.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-00, p. 48076, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 1)

1-4-080 Numbering of Code sections – References to former Code
provisions.

   Each section number of this Code shall consist of three component
parts separated by dashes. The figure before the first dash shall refer
to the title number; the figure following the first dash shall refer to
the position of the chapter within a title; and the figure following the
second dash shall refer to the position of the section within its
chapter.

   No officer or employee except aldermen of the city shall issue any
written material containing any section of the municipal code numbered
differently than as numbered herein; and no section number shall be
changed by any such officer or employee in drafting any amendment to
this Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the various
departments and agencies of the city government may continue to use
notices, citations and other documents containing references to chapter
and section numbers of the municipal code as in effect prior to passage
of this Code until December 31, 1990.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-090 Definitions for Code provisions.

   Unless the context requires other interpretations, the following
words and terms are defined for purposes of this code as follows:

   (a)   "City" means City of Chicago;

   (b)   "State" means State of Illinois;

   (c)   "County" means County of Cook;

   (d)   "City council" means the city council of the City of Chicago;

   (e)   "Person" means any natural individual, firm, trust,
partnership, association, joint venture, corporation or other legal
entity, in his or its own capacity or as administrator, conservator,
guardian, executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
by the court. Whenever the word "person" is used in any section of this
code prescribing a penalty, fine, or cost recovery action as applied to
partnerships, associations or joint ventures, the word shall include the
members thereof, and as applied to corporations shall include the
officers, agents or employees thereof who intentionally, recklessly or
negligently cause or allow any violation of the section;

   (f)   "Public way" means any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or
other public thoroughfare;

   (g)   "Code" means the Municipal Code of Chicago as amended from time
to time, except as otherwise explicitly provided in Titles 14A, 14B,
14C, 14E, 14F, 14G, 14M, 14N, 14P, 14R, and 14X in connection with the
adoption by reference of a model building code;

   (h)   "Building code" or "building provisions of this Code" means:
Titles 13 (excepting Chapter 13-72), 14A, 14B, 14C, 14E, 14F, 14G, 14M,
14N, 14P, 14R, 14X and 18 (excepting Chapter 18-14); Chapters 2-22, 7-4,
7-28; Article III of Chapter 11-4; Article I of Chapter 11-16; Chapter
11-18; Chapters 15-8, 15-12 and 15-16, Section 8-4-090; and all other
provisions of this Code establishing or relating to construction,
plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation, zoning, or
other health and safety standards relating to structures, except to the
extent authority for enforcement and administration is conferred
exclusively on a department or agency other than the department of
buildings or on an officer other than the building commissioner and
except as specifically provided in Titles 14A, 14B, 14C, 14E, 14F, 14G,
14M, 14N, 14P, 14R, and 14X;

   (h-1)   "Conveyance Device Code" or "conveyance device regulations of
this Code" means Title 14C;

   (i)   "Electrical Code" or "electrical regulations of this Code"
means Article II of Chapter 13-12 and Title 14E;

   (j)   "Fire Code" or "fire regulations of this Code" means Title 14F,
Chapter 2-36, Chapter 15-4, Chapter 15-8, Chapter 15-16, Chapter 15-20,
Chapter 15-24, Chapter 15-26, and Chapter 15-28 of this Code;

   (k)   "Chief financial officer" means the chief financial officer of
the City appointed by the mayor or, if there is no such officer then
holding that office, the city comptroller.

   (l)   "Rule" means the whole or part of any statement, communication,
standard, procedure or requirement of general applicability, having the
force of law, issued by a department or department head pursuant to
authority delegated by law to such department or department head that
(1) implements or applies law or policy, or (2) prescribes the
procedural requirements of a department including an amendment,
modification, suspension or repeal of any such statement, communication,
standard, procedure or requirement. The term "rule" encompasses any and
all references to "rules and regulations" set forth in this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8019;
Amend Coun. J. 3-28-01, p. 55444, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026,
§ 2.1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-07,
p. 14999, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 1-13-10, p. 83085, § 3; Amend
Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95086, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 12-12-12, p. 44485, § 9; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p.
11951, Art. X, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24131, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 9-6-17, p. 55278, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 74459,
Art. II, § 1 & Art. V, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II,
§ 1)

1-4-100 Interpretation of language.

   Whenever any words in any section of this Code import the plural
number, the singular shall be deemed to be included, and whenever the
singular shall be used, it shall be deemed to include the plural.

   Whenever the masculine gender is used in this Code, all genders shall
be deemed to be included.

   Words in the present tense shall be deemed to include the future
tense.

   The words "written" and "in writing" may include printing.

   Except as otherwise explicitly provided in this Code, the word
"shall" as used in this Code is mandatory.

   Headings provided in the various sections of this Code are for
convenience and reference only and should not be considered part of the
text of any section.

   References in this Code to wards by number, without an accompanying
boundary or other geographic description, shall be deemed to refer to
the geographic configuration of the referenced ward at the time the
ordinance containing that ward reference was enacted into law.

   References in this Code to the power to close a business,
establishment or premises, in whole or in part, for engaging in
unlicensed business activity in violation of this Code, including but
not limited to violation of Title 4 or Title 9 of this Code, shall
include, without limitation, the power to issue a cease and desist order
or any other lawful order necessary or appropriate to accomplish the
closure.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. VIII, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. XIII, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-7-20, p. 21440, §
1)

1-4-110 References to sections include penalty references – Exceptions.

   Reference to any section of this Code shall be understood to refer to
and include the penalty provision relating thereto, unless otherwise
expressly provided. In case of the amendment of any section of this Code
containing provisions for which a penalty is provided in another
section, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to
relate to the section so amended, whether reenacted in the amendatory
ordinance or not, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-120 Penalty for violation of Code.

   Whenever in any section of this Code the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act or duty is declared to be a violation thereof,
and there shall be no fine or penalty declared for such violation, any
person who shall be convicted or found liable of any such violation
shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 for each such
violation.

   A penalty imposed for the violation of any provision of this Code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant perform
reasonable community service. Such community service may include, but
shall not be limited to, the removal of litter on public property or the
maintenance of public facilities. In every case brought under this Code,
where community service is part of a disposition, the corporation
counsel shall request that the service be performed in the same
community where illegal conduct giving rise to the case occurred.

   A penalty imposed for the violation of any provision of this Code may
include an assessment of costs reasonably related to instituting the
judicial or administrative proceeding resulting in the imposition of the
penalty.

   In any case that this Code specifies a mandatory fine, mandatory
period of incarceration or other mandatory penalty for a code violation,
any requirement of community service or assessment of costs imposed for
the Code violation pursuant to this section shall be in addition to the
mandatory penalty.

   Whenever this Code refers to an offense, violation or conviction for
purposes of establishing a penalty for a violation of this Code, the
offense, violation or conviction may either be the result of an
administrative hearing or a court proceeding.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23797;
Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24987; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66566;
Amend Coun. J. 6-9-99, p. 5102)

1-4-125 Restitution – License or permit violations.

   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this Code by failing
to obtain a license or permit when required by the Code, or by failing
to obtain any insurance required under any permit or license issued to
such person, shall in addition to any fine or penalty specified by this
Code, be required to make restitution to the city in the full amount of
all liabilities, judgments, settlements, costs, damages and expenses
which may in any way come against the city, in whole or in part as a
result of any act, omission or thing done by said person, for which the
license or permit was required.

   (b)   The restitution requirement of this section shall apply whether
or not any negligence on the part of the city or its officers or
employees also contributed in part to any such liabilities, judgments,
settlements, costs, damages and expenses.

(Added Coun. J. 1-14-04, p. 17349, § 1)

1-4-130 Maximum fine or penalty.

   Whenever in this Code a minimum but no maximum fine or penalty is
imposed, the court may in its discretion fine the offender any sum of
money exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so fixed, but not exceeding
the sum of $500.00.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-140 Offenses having two penalties.

   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this Code, the corporation counsel
may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-145 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 1, repealed § 1-4-145,
which pertained to failure to appear at a hearing.

1-4-150 Zoning ordinance adopted.

   The comprehensive zoning amendment passed by the city council on
March 31, 2004, as amended (Chicago Zoning Ordinance) is hereby
incorporated into this Code and designated Title 17.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, §
1)

1-4-160 Scope of repeal.

   Unless it expressly provides otherwise, no new ordinance that amends
or repeals a prior ordinance shall be construed to affect any offense or
act committed, or action, penalty or claim arising under the prior
ordinance, except that any proceedings after the effective date of any
such new ordinance shall conform, insofar as practicable, to the
ordinance in effect at the time of the proceedings. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be
applied to any judgment entered after the new ordinance takes effect.

   This section shall extend to all repeals, whether express or by
implication, and regardless of whether contained in an ordinance making
any new provision upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-170 Reference to statutes.

   Whenever any section of this Code makes reference to the Illinois
Complied Statutes such reference shall be deemed to include the current
statute in effect, or as thereafter amended, unless the context
indicates otherwise.

(Added Coun. J. 4-18-12, p. 23762, § 5)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed a former §
1-4-170, which pertained to pending actions.

1-4-180 Repeal shall not revive any ordinance.

   No ordinance that repeals an ordinance repealing a former ordinance,
clause or provision shall be construed to revive the original ordinance,
clause or provision.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-190 Liberal construction of provisions.

   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

1-4-200 Severability.

   If any part, section, sentence, clause or application of this Code
shall be adjudged invalid, void and of no effect for any reason, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the
titles, chapters, sections or other provisions of this Code, or their
application to other circumstances.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-90, p. 17764)

CHAPTER 1-8
CORPORATE SEAL AND EMBLEMS

1-8-010   Corporate seal authorized – Description.

1-8-020   Design of flag, emblems and badges.

1-8-030   Municipal flag – Design requirements.

1-8-040   Municipal flag – Display.

1-8-041   Municipal flag – Display upon line of duty death of an
Illinois serviceperson.

1-8-050   Pennant.

1-8-060   Badge.

1-8-070   Municipal device – City vehicle identification.

1-8-080   Manufacture and custody of flags and badges.

1-8-090   Private use of flags and emblems unlawful.

1-8-100   Private use of seal unlawful.

1-8-110   Commemoration of city founder.

1-8-010 Corporate seal authorized – Description.

   The seal provided and authorized for the city shall be an obverse
side with a diameter of two and three- eighths inches, the impression of
which is a representation of a shield (American) gules, argent and azure
(in red, white, and blue); with a sheaf of wheat in fess-point (center),
or (in gold); a ship in full sail on dexter (as right side supporter)
proper; on top an infant proper, in a shell argent (in silver); an
Indian chief with a bow and arrow proper, on sinister (as left side
supporter) standing on a promontory, vert (in green); with the motto,
"Urbs in Horto", or, on scroll, gules (in gold on red flowing ribbon) at
bottom of the shield; with the inscription, "CITY OF CHICAGO;
INCORPORATED 4TH MARCH, 1837", or (in gold), within an azure (blue) ring
around the outer edge of said seal, which seal represented as aforesaid
and used with or without colors shall be and is hereby corrected,
established, declared to have been, and now to be, the seal of the city.
For general use, the plain impression in white containing the figures as
given above, as shown herewith, shall be sufficient.

[]

(Prior code § 2-1)

1-8-020 Design of flag, emblems and badges.

   The forms, devices, symbols and colors in this chapter described and
set forth, respectively, for the purpose mentioned, shall be and they
are hereby adopted for the municipal flag, the municipal standard, the
municipal pennant, the municipal device, and the municipal badge of the
city.

(Prior code § 2-2)

1-8-030 Municipal flag – Design requirements.

   The municipal flag shall be white, with two blue bars, each taking up
a sixth of its space, and set a little less than one-sixth of the way
from the top and bottom of the flag, respectively. There shall be four
bright red stars with sharp points, six in number, set side by side,
close together, next to the staff in the middle third of the surface of
the flag. The said red stars on the municipal flag shall be designated
from the hoist outwards as follows:

   Fort Dearborn;

   The Great Chicago Fire of October 8 – 10, 1871;

   The World's Columbian Exposition of 1893;

   The Century of Progress of 1933.

   The proportions of the municipal flag and standard shall be
preferably two in height to three in breadth, or three in height to five
in breadth, in banners to be borne by hand, and as one to two in flags
to be flown from masts and staffs, or in any of the dimensions
officially prescribed for the national ensign by the government of the
United States. When suspended from windows or over a street, the
municipal flag may be pointed or notched. The municipal standard shall
be made of silk, and be fringed with gold.

(Prior code § 2-3)

1-8-040 Municipal flag – Display.

   The municipal flag shall be displayed on the City Hall, and on other
municipal buildings and other public places, on all holidays and other
occasions when the national flag is ordered to be displayed. Provided,
always, however, that such municipal flag shall never be displayed in
any position that shall indicate superiority to or precedence over the
flag of the United States. Every public building owned by the city shall
be equipped with a flagpole mounted on the outside thereof.

(Prior code § 2-4)

1-8-041 Municipal flag – Display upon line of duty death of an Illinois
serviceperson.

   This ordinance shall be known as the Pfc. Daniel Zizumbo Memorial
Act.

   Upon loss of life in the line of duty of any Illinoisan serving in a
branch of the national armed forces or in the Illinois National Guard,
all municipal flags on display at City Hall, other municipal buildings,
and public places shall be hung at half-staff or half-mast from the day
of death or notification of the death until the day of interment.

(Added Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99100, § 2)

1-8-050 Pennant.

   The municipal pennant shall be a long streamer showing the three
stars on white at the staff, the fly being equally divided, blue and
white. The municipal pennant shall be in the proportions of two in width
to 15 in length, or two in width to 20 in length.

(Prior code § 2-5)

1-8-060 Badge.

   The municipal badge shall show on a silver ground three red stars
with sharp points, six in number, between two blue bars.

(Prior code § 2-6)

1-8-070 Municipal device – City vehicle identification.

   The municipal device, for use by the varied unofficial interests of
the city and its people, shall show a Y-shaped figure in a circle,
colored and designed to suit individual tastes and needs.

   All automobiles and other vehicles which are owned by the city,
except those used by the commissioner of police, and the detective
bureau of the department of police, shall be distinctly marked as the
property of the city by painting or placing thereon in a conspicuous
place, in such a manner that the same cannot be removed, the municipal
device, together with the words "City of Chicago", and the name of the
department operating the said automobile or other vehicle.

(Prior code § 2-7)

1-8-080 Manufacture and custody of flags and badges.

   The Commissioner of Fleet and Facility Management shall cause to be
made, in accordance with the design fixed in this chapter, such number
of flags as the Commissioner may deem proper and necessary, and of
suitable size, for use on City Hall and other buildings and structures
owned by the City.

   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the corporate seal and of
the municipal flag, standard and badge, drawn to scale.

(Prior code § 2-8; Amend Coun. J. 12-11-91, p. 10832; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390,
Art. III, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. I, § 1)

1-8-090 Private use of flags and emblems unlawful.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the municipal flag,
standard, pennant, or badge, or any imitation or design thereof, except
for the usual and customary purposes of decoration or display. No person
shall print or stamp thereon or cause to be displayed thereon any
letter, word, legend or device not herein provided for. Any person
violating this section shall be fined not less than $5.00 nor more than
$25.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 2-9)

1-8-100 Private use of seal unlawful.

   No person shall fraudulently forge, deface, corrupt, or counterfeit
the seal of the city, nor shall any person, other than the duly
authorized public official, make use of said seal. Any person violating
the provision of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor
more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 2-10)

1-8-110 Commemoration of city founder.

   In conjunction with annual celebrations of its date of incorporation,
the City of Chicago shall commemorate and promote public awareness of
the life and accomplishments of its founder, Jean Baptiste Pointe Du
Sable.

(Added Coun. J. 3-1-06, p. 71696, § 2)

CHAPTER 1-12
OFFICIAL CITY TIME

1-12-010   Official city time designated.

1-12-020   Reserved.

1-12-030   Reserved.

1-12-010 Official city time designated.

   Central standard time or central daylight time, as applicable, shall
be the official time within the City of Chicago for the transaction of
all city business.

   When reference is made to any time without qualification in any
ordinance, resolution or order heretofore passed or which may be passed
hereafter by the city council, or in any official notice, advertisement
or document of the city, or in any contract to which the city is party,
such reference shall refer to the official time of the city.

   In all ordinances, resolutions or orders of the city council and in
all official notices, advertisements or documents of the city and in all
contracts to which the city is a party relating to the time of
performance of any act by any officer or department of the city or
relating to the time within which any rights shall accrue or determine
or relating to the time within which any act shall or shall not be
performed by any person it shall be understood and intended that the
time shall be the official time of the city as herein prescribed.

(Prior code § 193-33; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, § 1)

1-12-020 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-19-14, p. 98037, § 1, repealed § 1-12-020,
which pertained to city clocks showing official time.

1-12-030 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-19-14, p. 98037, § 1, repealed § 1-12-030,
which pertained to chapter violation and penalty therefor.

CHAPTER 1-14
OFFICIAL NEIGHBORHOODS AND COMMUNITY AREAS

1-14-010   Designated – Naming and renaming.

1-14-010 Designated – Naming and renaming.

   The seventy-seven community area names and the one hundred
seventy-eight neighborhoods named and outlined on the maps marked
Exhibit A and Exhibit B, on file in the city clerk's office and made a
part hereof, are hereby designated as the official community areas and
neighborhoods of the City of Chicago.

   No person shall name or rename a community area or neighborhood
without the passage of an ordinance authorizing such naming or renaming.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-93, p. 44063)

CHAPTER 1-16
NUCLEAR WEAPON FREE ZONE

1-16-010   Definitions.

1-16-020   Nuclear weapons work – Unlawful activities – Exceptions.

1-16-030   Reserved.

1-16-040   Civil defense participation limitations.

1-16-050   Annual commemoration day.

1-16-060   Sign requirements.

1-16-070   Violation – Penalty.

1-16-080   Reserved.

1-16-010 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply:

   (a)   "Person" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section
1-4-090(e), but shall not include the federal government or any agency
thereof.

   (b)   "Nuclear weapon" means any device, the purpose of which is use
as a weapon, a weapon prototype or a weapon test device, the intended
detonation of which results from the energy released by fission and/or
fusion reactions involving atomic nuclei. For the purpose of this
ordinance, "nuclear weapon" includes the weapon's guidance and
propulsion system and triggering mechanism, i.e., the means of
transporting, guiding, propelling, triggering or detonating the weapon,
provided that such means is destroyed or rendered useless in the normal
transporting, guiding, propelling, triggering or detonation of the
weapon.

   (c)   "Component of a nuclear weapon" means any device, radioactive
or nonradioactive, specifically designed to be installed in and
contribute to the operation of a nuclear weapon.

   (d)   "Direct activities of the federal government" means actions of
the federal government or any agency thereof created by statute, but
shall exclude actions of independent contractors.

(Prior code § 202-1; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected.
2-3-87, p. 39355; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, § 1)

1-16-020 Nuclear weapons work – Unlawful activities – Exceptions.

   (a)   Phase-out of present activities. No person shall knowingly,
within the City of Chicago, design, produce, deploy, launch, maintain,
or store nuclear weapons or components of nuclear weapons. This
prohibition shall take effect two years after the adoption and
publication of this ordinance.

   (b)   Prohibition of commencement of nuclear weapons work. No person
who is not, as of the effective date of this ordinance, engaged in the
design, production, deployment, launching, maintenance or storage of
nuclear weapons or components of nuclear weapons, shall, within the City
of Chicago, commence any such activities after the effective date of
this ordinance.

   (c)   Exclusion. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit:

      (i)   Any activity not specifically described in this section;

      (ii)   Basic research;

      (iii)   Any writing or speech devoted to public commentary or
debate or other speech protected by the First Amendment of the United
States Constitution;

      (iv)   The research and application of nuclear medicine;

      (v)   Uses of fissionable materials for smoke detectors,
light-emitting watches and clocks and other consumer products; or

      (vi)   Direct activities of the federal government.

(Prior code § 202-2; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected.
2-3-87, p. 39355)

1-16-030 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 1-16-030,
which pertained to redirection of resources toward human needs – peace
conversion commission.

1-16-040 Civil defense participation limitations.

   Recognizing the futility of civil defense against nuclear war and its
ensuing radioactive contamination, the city declares that planning for
or participating in civil defense programs purporting to prepare for
nuclear attack is futile and dangerous. Therefore, the city will not
participate in any civil defense or population evacuation program
exclusively intended to be implemented upon the outbreak or threatened
outbreak of nuclear hostilities.

   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit any
other type of civil defense or emergency preparedness program.

(Prior code § 202-4; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected.
2-3-87, p. 39355)

1-16-050 Annual commemoration day.

   In recognition of the first use of nuclear weapons against the
Japanese City of Hiroshima in 1945, August 6th shall be declared
"Nuclear Weapon Free Zone Commemoration Day" within the City of Chicago.
The city shall sponsor an appropriate observation annually on this date.
This annual observation shall include a report by the mayor on the
city's activities to enforce this ordinance.

(Prior code § 202-5; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected.
2-3-87, p. 39355)

1-16-060 Sign requirements.

   The city shall post and maintain appropriate signs at recognized
entrances to the city and in City Hall proclaiming the City of Chicago's
status as a nuclear weapon free zone. When posted on city streets or on
state or federally supported roads entering the City of Chicago, such
signs shall conform with the standards set forth in Section 28-44 of the
Federal Highway Administration's "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways".

(Prior code § 202-6; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected.
2-3-87, p. 39355)

1-16-070 Violation – Penalty.

   Each violation of this ordinance shall be punishable by up to 30
days' imprisonment and a $1,000.00 fine. Each day of violation shall be
deemed a separate violation.

(Prior code § 202-7; Added Coun. J. 3-12-86, p. 28521; Corrected Coun.
J. 2-3-87, p. 39355)

1-16-080 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-19-14, p. 98037, § 1, repealed § 1-16-080,
which pertained to severability.

CHAPTER 1-19
DEBT DUE AND OWING TO THE CITY

1-19-010   Definitions.

1-19-020   Default in payment of fines – Recovery of collection costs
and attorney's fees.

1-19-030   Failure to pay other debt – Recovery of collection costs.

1-19-010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions apply:

   "Collection costs" means the expenses and time incurred by the city
or its agents to collect any debt due and owing.

   "Debt due and owing" or "debt" means a specified sum of money owed to
the city for fines, penalties, fees, interest, or other types of charges
or costs imposed by this code, or administrative or judicial judgments
after: (i) the period granted for payment has expired; (ii) the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures; or
(iii) in the case of tax debt, an assessment has become final under
Section 3-4-330 of this code.

   "Department" means the department of finance.

(Added Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 48243, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 1)

1-19-020 Default in payment of fines – Recovery of collection costs and
attorney's fees.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary and
in addition to any other late penalty, interest, or other types of
charges or costs provided for in this code:

   (a)   any person who fails to pay any debt due and owing, which debt
is a result of that person's default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine, shall be liable for the city's collection costs
and attorney's fees incurred by the city in the collection of the debt;
and

   (b)   the comptroller may charge such debtor specified in subsection
(a) of this section, collection costs and attorney's fees incurred by
the city for collection of the fine. Any collection cost and attorney's
fees billed shall be separately stated and identified in the
department's billings. Any collection cost billed may be either the
collection costs incurred as a result of the debtor's failure to pay the
fine or a set amount specified in a ruling to be published by the
department, based on the average cost incurred by the city in collecting
such fines generally.

(Added Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 48243, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 1)

1-19-030 Failure to pay other debt – Recovery of collection costs.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary and
in addition to any other late penalty, interest, or other types of
charges or costs provided for in this code:

   (a)   any person who fails to pay any debt due and owing, other than
the debt specified in Section 1-19-020, shall be liable for the city's
collection costs in the collection of the debt; and

   (b)   the comptroller may charge such debtor specified in subsection
(a) of this section, if the debt has remained unpaid for more than
thirty days after the debt is due and owing, the costs incurred by the
city in collecting the debt and may bill the debtor for the city's
collection costs incurred as of the date of the billing. Any collection
costs billed shall be separately stated and identified in the
department's billings. Any collection costs billed may be either the
collection costs incurred as a result of the debtor's failure to pay the
debt or a set amount specified in a ruling to be published by the
department, based on the average cost incurred by the city in collecting
such debts generally.

(Added Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 48243, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 1)

CHAPTER 1-20
COST RECOVERY – LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF PROVIDING SERVICES*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, §§ 2 and 3, renumbered and
amended various sections of the Code and created a new Ch. 1-20 to read
as herein set out.

1-20-010   Definitions.

1-20-020   Liability designated – Collection.

1-20-030   Liability of employer.

1-20-040   Defenses to violation of law.

1-20-050   Billing – Rules and regulations.

1-20-060   Recovery of court cost and attorney's fees.

1-20-070   Remedies not exclusive.

1-20-080   Continuation of prior ordinances.

1-20-090   Failure to pay debt due and owing the city.

1-20-010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter:

   The word "costs" includes all costs of the city incurred in relation
to the provision of services by the city or its agents, regardless of
whether the city would have otherwise incurred those costs, including
but not limited to wages and benefits of personnel involved in providing
such services, reasonable costs of equipment used in the provision of
such services, costs of materials expended in providing such services,
costs of storing hazardous or any other materials recovered during the
course of providing such services, or any other costs allocable to the
provision of services.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-010.

1-20-020 Liability designated – Collection.

   Any person who causes the city or its agents to incur costs in order
to provide services reasonably related to such person's violation of any
federal, state or local law, or such person's failure to correct
conditions which violate any federal, state or local law when such
person was under a legal duty to do so, shall be liable to the city for
those costs. This liability shall be collectible in the same manner as
any other personal liability.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-020.

1-20-030 Liability of employer.

   In any case in which a person is liable for costs pursuant to this
chapter, and such liability arises as a result of that person's actions
within the scope of his employment by any other person, such other
person shall also be liable for such costs.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-030.

1-20-040 Defenses to violation of law.

   In an action brought under this chapter where the city has issued a
written notice of a violation, it shall be a defense that: the defendant
undertook reasonable efforts to remedy the existing violation of law
within the time prescribed in the city's notice, or if no time is
prescribed in the city's notice, a reasonable period of time.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-040.

1-20-050 Billing – Rules and regulations.

   City departments that provide services may promulgate rules and
regulations to determine the method of calculating costs recoverable
under this chapter, and for billing persons for charges under this
chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-050.

1-20-060 Recovery of court cost and attorney's fees.

   In any action brought under this chapter, the City of Chicago shall
also be entitled to recover a penalty in an amount equal to the city's
litigation and collection costs and attorney's fees.

(Added Coun. J. 12-5-90, p. 27507; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-28-060.

1-20-070 Remedies not exclusive.

   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any cause of
action or legal remedy.

(Added Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

1-20-080 Continuation of prior ordinances.

   A provision of this chapter, insofar as it is the same or
substantially the same as those of any prior ordinance, shall be
construed as a continuation of such prior ordinance and not as a new or
different ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2)

1-20-090 Failure to pay debt due and owing the city.

   (a)   The failure to pay any debt due the city, including, but not
limited to, amounts owed on account of a fee, lease, rent, service, sale
of real or personal property, overpayment, administrative or judicial
judgment, fine, penalty, restitution, damages, interest, tax,
reimbursement, recovery of a cost incurred by the city or other source
of indebtedness to the city, after the period granted for payment has
expired by any person liable for such debt shall constitute a violation
of this Code. Judgment shall be entered against any person who violates
this section in the amount of the debt remaining unpaid on the date the
judgment is entered plus litigation and collection costs, attorney's
fees and an amount representing all fines and penalties assessed
pursuant to this section. An administrative penalty of .75 percent of
the amount of debt remaining unpaid on the date the judgment is entered
shall be assessed for each month or portion thereof in which the debt
remained unpaid.

   (b)   In addition to any other means authorized by law, the city may
enforce this section by instituting an action with the department of
administrative hearings.

   (c)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from seeking to
collect any debt due the city through the use of any other
administrative procedure or court proceeding authorized by law.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-99, p. 21529, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-21-04, p.
28443, § 3)

Editor's note – Formerly § 8-4-355.

CHAPTER 1-21
FALSE STATEMENTS

1-21-010   False statements.

1-21-020   Aiding and abetting.

1-21-030   Enforcement.

1-21-010 False statements.

   (a)   Any person who knowingly makes a false statement of material
fact to the city in violation of any statute, ordinance or regulation,
or who knowingly makes a false statement of material fact to the city in
connection with any application, report, affidavit, oath, or
attestation, including a statement of material fact made in connection
with a bid, proposal, contract or economic disclosure statement or
affidavit, is liable to the city for a civil penalty of not less than
$500.00 and not more than $1,000.00, plus up to three times the amount
of damages which the city sustains because of the person's violation of
this section. A person who violates this section shall also be liable
for the city's litigation and collection costs and attorney's fees. The
penalties imposed by this section shall be in addition to any other
penalty provided for in the municipal code.

   (b)   Any person who signs, certifies, attests, submits or otherwise
provides assurances to the city, or causes any other person to sign,
certify, attest, submit or otherwise provide assurances to the city,
that a statement of material fact made in connection with any
application, report, affidavit, oath, attestation or other document
submitted to the city is accurate, true or complete, shall make a
reasonable investigation to determine the accuracy, truthfulness or
completeness of such statement of material fact.

   (c)   When any person signs, certifies, attests, submits or otherwise
provides assurances to the city, or causes any other person to sign,
certify, attest, submit or otherwise provide assurances to the city,
that a statement of material fact made in connection with any
application, report, affidavit, oath, attestation or other document
submitted to the city is accurate, true or complete, and that statement
of material fact is not accurate, true or complete, a rebuttable
presumption shall be created that such person has not made a reasonable
investigation to determine the accuracy, truthfulness or completeness of
such statement of material fact.

   (d)   For the purposes of Chapter 1-21 of this Code, a person
knowingly makes a false statement of material fact when that person (i)
makes a statement of material fact with actual knowledge that the
statement was false, or (ii) makes a statement of material fact with
knowledge of facts or information that would cause a reasonable person
to be aware that the statement was false when it was made, or (iii)
signs, certifies, attests, submits or otherwise provides assurances, or
causes any other person to sign, certify, attest, submit or otherwise
provide assurances, that a statement of material fact is true or
accurate in deliberate ignorance or reckless disregard of the truth or
falsity of the statement. For purposes of this section, a person who
fails to make a reasonable investigation to determine the accuracy,
truthfulness or completeness of any material fact acts in deliberate
ignorance or reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the material
fact.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39915, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-18-09, p.
56013, § 1)

1-21-020 Aiding and abetting.

   Any person who aids, abets, incites, compels or coerces the doing of
any act prohibited by this chapter shall be liable to the city for the
same penalties for the violation.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39915, § 1)

1-21-030 Enforcement.

   In addition to any other means authorized by law, the corporation
counsel may enforce this chapter by instituting an action with the
department of administrative hearings.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39915, § 1)

CHAPTER 1-22
FALSE CLAIMS

1-22-010   Definitions.

1-22-020   False claims.

1-22-030   Civil actions for false claims.

1-22-040   False claims procedure.

1-22-050   Subpoenas.

1-22-060   Procedure.

1-22-010 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter:

   "Claim" includes any request or demand, whether under a contract or
otherwise, for money or property which is made by a city contractor,
grantee, or other recipient if the city is the source of any portion of
the money or property which is requested or demanded, or if the city
will reimburse such contractor, grantee, or other recipient for any
portion of the money or property which is requested or demanded.

   "Contract" means any agreement or transaction pursuant to which a
person (i) receives or may be entitled to receive city funds or other
property, including grant funds, in consideration for services, work or
goods provided or rendered, including contracts for legal or other
professional services, (ii) purchases the city's real or personal
property or is granted the right to use it by virtue of a lease, license
or otherwise, or (iii) collects monies (other than taxes) on behalf of
the city.

   "City contractor" means a person who enters into a contract or who
has taken any action to obtain a contract, or any owner, officer,
director, employee or agent of such a person, or any subcontractor, or
any person acting in concert or conspiring with such person, but shall
not include any person who is a city official or employee or was a city
official or employee at the time of the alleged conduct.

   "Investigation" means any inquiry conducted by any investigator for
the purpose of ascertaining whether any person is or has been engaged in
any violation of this chapter.

   "Knowing" and "knowingly" mean that a person, with respect to
information:

      (1)   has actual knowledge of the information;

      (2)   acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the
information; or

      (3)   acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the
information, regardless of whether there is specific proof of intent to
defraud.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1)

1-22-020 False claims.

   (a)   Any person who:

      (1)   knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, to an
official or employee of the city a false or fraudulent claim for payment
or approval;

      (2)   knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false
record or statement to get a false or fraudulent claim paid or approved
by the city;

      (3)   conspires to defraud the city by getting a false or
fraudulent claim allowed or paid;

      (4)   has possession, custody, or control of property or money
used, or to be used, by the city and knowingly delivers, or causes to be
delivered, less property than the amount for which the person receives a
certificate or receipt;

      (5)   is authorized to make or deliver a document certifying
receipt of property used, or to be used, by the city and, intending to
defraud the city, makes or delivers the receipt without complete
knowledge that the information on the receipt is true;

      (6)   knowingly buys, or receives as a pledge of an obligation or
debt, public property from an officer or employee of the city who
lawfully may not sell or pledge the property;

      (7)   knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false
record or statement to conceal, avoid or decrease an obligation to pay
or transmit money or property to the city; or

      (8)   knowingly violates 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b in connection with
the provision of items or services included in a claim to the city is
liable to the city for a civil penalty of not less than $5,000.00 and
not more than $10,000.00, plus three times the amount of damages which
the city sustains because of the act of that person. A person violating
this section shall also be liable to the city for the attorneys’ fees
and costs of a civil action brought to recover any such penalty or
damages.

   (b)   Reduced damages. If a court adjudicating a violation of this
section finds that:

      (1)   the person committing the violation furnished officials of
the city responsible for investigating false claims violations with all
information known to such person about the violation within 30 days
after the date on which the person first obtained the information;

      (2)   such person fully cooperated with any city investigation of
such violation; and

      (3)   at the time such person furnished the city with the
information about the violation, no criminal prosecution, civil action,
or administrative action had commenced under this chapter with respect
to such violation, and the person did not have actual knowledge of the
existence of an investigation into such violation, the court may assess
not less than two times the amount of damages which the city sustains
because of the act of that person.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p.
88797, § 1)

1-22-030 Civil actions for false claims.

   (a)   The corporation counsel may bring a civil action under this
section against any person who has violated or is violating Section
1-22-020.

   (b)   Actions by private persons.

      (1)   A person may bring a civil action against a city contractor
for a violation of Section 1-22-020 for the person and for the city. The
action shall be brought in the name of the city. The action may be
dismissed only if the court and the corporation counsel give written
consent to the dismissal and their reasons for consenting.

      (2)   A copy of the complaint and written disclosure of
substantially all material evidence and information the person possesses
shall be served on the city. In all such actions, service upon the city
shall be made by leaving a copy with the city clerk. The compliant shall
be filed in camera, shall remain under seal for at least 60 days, and
shall not be served on the defendant until the court so orders. The city
may elect to intervene and proceed with the action within 60 days after
it receives both the complaint and the material evidence and
information.

      (3)   The city may, for good cause shown, move the court for
extensions of the time during which the complaint remains under seal
under paragraph (2). Any such motions may be supported by affidavits or
other submissions in camera. The defendant shall not be required to
respond to any complaint filed under this section until 20 days after
the complaint is unsealed and served upon the defendant.

      (4)   Before the expiration of the 60-day period or any extensions
obtained under paragraph (3), the city shall:

         (A)   proceed with the action, in which case the action shall
be conducted by the city; or

         (B)   notify the court that it declines to take over the
action, in which case the person bringing the action shall have the
right to conduct the action.

      (5)   When a person brings an action under this subsection (b), no
person other than the city may intervene or bring a related action based
on the facts underlying the pending action.

   (c)   Rights of the parties to qui tam actions.

      (1)   If the city proceeds with the action, it shall have the
primary responsibility for prosecuting the action, and shall not be
bound by an act of the person bringing the action. Such person shall
have the right to continue as a party to the action, subject to the
limitations set forth in paragraph (2).

      (2)   (A)   The city may dismiss the action notwithstanding the
objections of the person initiating the action if the person has been
notified by the city of the filing of the motion to dismiss and the
court has provided the person with an opportunity for a hearing on the
motion.

         (B)   The city may settle the action with the defendant
notwithstanding the objections of the person initiating the action if
the court determines, after a hearing, that the proposed settlement is
fair, adequate, and reasonable under all the circumstances. Upon a
showing of good cause, such hearing may be held in camera.

         (C)   Upon a showing by the city that unrestricted
participation during the course of the litigation by the person
initiating the action would interfere with or unduly delay the city's
prosecution of the case, or would be repetitious, irrelevant, or for
purposes of harassment, the court may, in its discretion, impose
limitations on the person's participation, such as:

            (i)   limiting the number of witnesses the person may call;

            (ii)   limiting the length of the testimony of such
witnesses;

            (iii)   limiting the person's cross- examination of the
witnesses; or

            (iv)   otherwise limiting the participation by the person in
the litigation.

         (D)   Upon a showing by the defendant that unrestricted
participation during the course of the litigation by the person
initiating the action would be for purposes of harassment or would cause
the defendant undue burden or unnecessary expense, the court may limit
the participation by the person in the litigation.

      (3)   If the city elects not to proceed with the action, the
person who initiated the action shall have the right to conduct the
action. If the city so requests, it shall be served with copies of all
pleadings filed in the action and shall be supplied with copies of all
discovery and deposition transcripts at the city's expense. When a
person proceeds with the action, the court, without limiting the status
and rights of the person initiating the action, may nevertheless permit
the city to intervene at a later date upon a showing of good cause.

      (4)   Whether or not the city proceeds with the action, upon a
showing by the city that certain actions of discovery by the person
initiating the action would interfere with the city's investigation or
prosecution of a criminal or civil matter arising out of the same facts,
the court may stay such discovery for a period of not more than 60 days.
Such a showing shall be conducted in camera. The court may extend the
60-day period upon a further showing in camera that the city has pursued
the criminal or civil investigation or proceedings with reasonable
diligence and any proposed discovery in the civil action will interfere
with the ongoing criminal or civil investigation or proceeding.

      (5)   Notwithstanding any other provision in subsection (b), the
city may elect to pursue its claim through any alternate remedy
available to the city, including an administrative proceeding in the
department of administrative hearings. If any such alternate remedy is
pursued in another proceeding, the person initiating the action shall
have the same rights in such proceeding as such person would have had if
the action had continued under this section. Any finding of fact or
conclusion of law made in such other proceeding that has become final
shall be conclusive on all parties to an action under this section. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, a finding or conclusion is final if
it has been finally determined on appeal to the appropriate court, if
all time for filing such an appeal with respect to the finding or
conclusion has expired, or if the finding or conclusion is not subject
to judicial review.

   (d)   Award to qui tam plaintiff.

      (1)   If the city proceeds with an action brought by a person
under this section, such person shall, subject to the second sentence of
this paragraph, receive at least 15 percent but not more than 25 percent
of the proceeds of the action or settlement of the claim, depending upon
the extent to which the person substantially contributed to the
prosecution of the action. Where the action is one which the court finds
to be based primarily on disclosures of specific information (other than
information provided by the person bringing the action) relating to
allegations or transactions in a criminal, civil, or administrative
hearing, in a legislative, administrative, or inspector general's
report, hearing, audit, or investigation, or from the news media, the
court may award such sums as it considers appropriate, but in no case
more than ten percent of the proceeds, taking into account the
significance of the information and the role of the person bringing the
action in advancing the case to litigation.

      (2)   If the city does not proceed with an action under this
section and the action is successfully brought or the claim is settled
by another person, that person shall, subject to the exception set forth
in this paragraph, receive an amount which the court decides is
reasonable for collecting the civil penalty and damages. The amount
shall be not less than 25 percent and not more than 30 percent of the
proceeds of the action or settlement and shall be paid out of such
proceeds.

      (3)   Any person entitled to an award under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection (d) shall also receive an amount for reasonable
expenses which the court finds to have been necessarily incurred, plus
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. The city shall also receive an
amount for reasonable expenses which the court finds to have been
necessarily incurred by the corporation counsel, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs. All such expenses, fees and costs awarded
pursuant to this subsection (d) shall be awarded against the defendant.

      (4)   Whether or not the city proceeds with the action, if the
court finds that the action was brought by a person who planned,
initiated or participated in the violation of Section 1-22-020 upon
which the action was brought, then the court may, to the extent the
court considers appropriate, reduce the share of the proceeds of the
action which the person would otherwise receive under paragraph (1) or
(2) of this subsection, taking into account the role of that person in
advancing the case to litigation and any relevant circumstances
pertaining to the violation. If the person bringing the action is
convicted of criminal conduct arising from his or her role in the
violation of Section 1-22-020, that person shall be dismissed from the
civil action and shall not receive any share of the proceeds of the
action. Such dismissal shall not prejudice the right of the city to
continue the action.

      (5)   If the city does not proceed with the action and the person
bringing the action conducts the action, the court may award to the
defendant its reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses if the defendant
prevails in the action and the court finds that the claim of the person
bringing the action was clearly frivolous, clearly vexatious, or brought
primarily for purposes of harassment.

   (e)   In no event may a person bring an action under subsection (b)
which (i) is based upon allegations or transactions which are the
subject of a civil suit or an administrative proceeding in which the
city is already a party or (ii) concerns the application, interpretation
or enforcement of any tax ordinance, as that term is defined in Section
3-4-020 of this Code.

   (f)   No court shall have jurisdiction over an action under this
section based upon the public disclosure of allegations or transactions
in a criminal, civil, or administrative hearing, in a legislative,
administrative, or Inspector General's report, hearing, audit, or
investigation, or from the news media, unless the action is brought by
the corporation counsel or the person bringing the action is an original
source of the information. For purposes of this subsection (f),
"original source" means an individual who has direct and independent
knowledge of the information on which the allegations are based and has
voluntarily provided the information to the city before filing an action
under this section which is based on the information.

   (g)   The city is not liable for expenses, including attorney's fees,
which a person incurs in bringing an action under this section.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p.
38867, § 1)

1-22-040 False claims procedure.

   (a)   A subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a trial or
hearing conducted under Section 1-22-030 may be served at any place in
the state.

   (b)   A civil action under Section 1-22-030 may not be brought:

      (1)   more than six years after the date on which the violation of
Section 1-22-020 is committed; or

      (2)   more than three years after the date when facts material to
the right of action are known or reasonably should have been known by
the official of the city charged with responsibility to act in the
circumstances, but in no event more than 10 years after the date on
which the violation is committed, whichever occurs last.

   (c)   If the city elects to intervene and proceed with an action
under Section 1-22-030(b), the city may file its own complaint or amend
the complaint of a person who has brought an action under Section
1-22-030(b) to clarify or add detail to the claims in which the city is
intervening and to add any additional claims with respect to which the
city contends it is entitled to relief. For purposes of the time
limitations set forth in subsection (b) of this section, any such city
pleading shall relate back to the filing date of the complaint of the
person who originally brought the action, to the extent that the claim
of the city arises out of the conduct, transactions, or occurrences set
forth, or attempted to be set forth, in the prior complaint of that
person.

   (d)   In any action brought under Section 1-22-030, the city shall be
required to prove all essential elements of the cause of action,
including damages, by a preponderance of the evidence.

   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a final judgement
rendered in favor of the city in any criminal proceeding charging fraud
or false statements, whether upon a verdict after trial or upon a plea
of guilty, shall stop the defendant from denying the essential elements
of the offense in any action which involves the same transaction as in
the criminal proceeding and which is brought under subsection (a) or (b)
of Section 1-22-030.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p.
88797, § 2)

1-22-050 Subpoenas.

   (a)   In general.

      (1)   Issuance and service. Whenever the Corporation Counsel has
reason to believe that any person may be in possession, custody, or
control of any documentary material or information relevant to an
investigation, the Corporation Counsel may, before commencing a civil
proceeding under this chapter, issue in writing and cause to be served
upon such person, a subpoena requiring such person:

         (A)   to produce such documentary material for inspection and
copying,

         (B)   to answer, in writing, written interrogatories with
respect to such documentary material or information,

         (C)   to give oral testimony concerning such documentary
material or information, or

         (D)   to furnish any combination of such material, answers, or
testimony. Whenever a subpoena is an express demand for any product of
discovery, the Corporation Counsel shall cause to be served, in any
manner authorized by this section, a copy of such demand upon the person
from whom the discovery was obtained and shall notify the person to whom
such demand is issued of the date on which such copy was served.

      (2)   Contents and deadlines. Each subpoena issued under paragraph
(1):

         (A)   Shall state the nature of the conduct constituting an
alleged violation that is under investigation and the applicable
provision of law alleged to be violated.

         (B)   Shall identify the individual causing the subpoena to be
served and to whom communications regarding the subpoena should be
directed.

         (C)   Shall state the date, place, and time at which the person
is required to appear, produce written answers to interrogatories,
produce documentary material or give oral testimony. The date shall not
be less than ten days from the date of service of the subpoena.
Compliance with the subpoena shall be at the office of the corporation
counsel.

         (D)   If the subpoena is for documentary material or
interrogatories, shall describe the documents or information requested
with specificity.

         (E)   Shall notify the person of the right to be assisted by
counsel.

         (F)   Shall advise that the person has 20 days from the date of
service or up until the return date specified in the demand, whichever
date is earlier, to move, to modify, or set aside the subpoena pursuant
to subparagraph (j)(2)(A) of this section, and that failing to do so
waives any non-jurisdictional defenses to enforcement of the subpoena.

   (b)   Protected material or information.

      (1)   In general. A subpoena issued under subsection (a) may not
require the production of any documentary material, the submission of
any answers to written interrogatories, or the giving of any oral
testimony if such material, answers, or testimony would be protected
from disclosure under:

         (A)   the standards applicable to subpoenas or subpoenas duces
tecum issued by a court of this state to aid in a grand jury
investigation; or

         (B)   the standards applicable to discovery requests under the
Code of Civil Procedure, to the extent that the application of such
standards to any such subpoena is appropriate and consistent with the
provisions and purposes of this section.

      (2)   Effect on other orders, rules and laws. Any such subpoena
which is an express demand for any product of discovery supersedes any
inconsistent order, rule, or provision of law (other than this section)
preventing or restraining disclosure of such product of discovery to any
person. Disclosure of any product of discovery pursuant to any such
subpoena does not constitute a waiver of any right or privilege which
the person making such disclosure may be entitled to invoke to resist
discovery of trial preparation materials.

   (c)   Service in general. Any subpoena issued under subsection (a)
may be served by any person so authorized by the Corporation Counsel or
by any person authorized to serve process on individuals within
Illinois, through any method prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedure
or as otherwise set forth in this chapter.

   (d)   Service upon legal entities and natural persons.

      (1)   Legal entities. Service of any subpoena issued under
subsection (a) or of any petition filed under subsection (j) may be made
upon a partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity by:

         (A)   delivering an executed copy of such subpoena or petition
to any partner, executive officer, managing agent, general agent, or
registered agent of the partnership, corporation, association or entity;

         (B)   delivering an executed copy of such subpoena or petition
to the principal office or place of business of the partnership,
corporation, association, or entity;

         (C)   depositing an executed copy of such subpoena or petition
in the United States mails by registered or certified mail, with a
return receipt requested, addressed to such partnership, corporation,
association, or entity at its principal office or place of business; or

         (D)   emailing an executed copy of the subpoena or petition to
the partnership, corporation, association, or entity to an email address
identified on the website of the partnership, corporation, association,
or entity or, if no such email address exists, to any email address
reasonably calculated to apprise the partnership, corporation,
association, or entity of the subpoena or petition.

      (2)   Natural person. Service of any such subpoena or petition may
be made upon any natural person by:

         (A)   delivering an executed copy of such subpoena or petition
to the person;

         (B)   depositing an executed copy of such subpoena or petition
in the United States mail by registered or certified mail, with a return
receipt requested, addressed to the person at the person’s residence or
principal office or place of business;

         (C)   leaving an executed copy of such subpoena or petition at
the person’s usual place of abode, with a member of the family or an
individual residing there, of the age of 13 years or upwards, and
informing that individual of the contents of the summons, provided the
individual making service shall also send an executed copy of the
subpoena or petition in a sealed envelope with postage fully prepaid,
addressed to the person at the person’s usual place of abode; or

         (D)   emailing an executed copy of the subpoena or petition to
the person at any email address reasonably calculated to apprise the
person of the subpoena or petition.

   (e)   Proof of service. A verified return by the individual serving
any subpoena issued under subsection (a) or any petition filed under
subsection (j) setting forth the manner of such service shall be proof
of such service. In the case of service by registered or certified mail,
such return shall be accompanied by the return post office receipt of
delivery of such subpoena or petition. In the case of service by email,
the return shall be accompanied by the email attaching the subpoena or
petition.

   (f)   Documentary material.

      (1)   Sworn certificates. The production of documentary material
in response to a subpoena served under this section shall be made under
a sworn certificate, in such form as the subpoena designates, by:

         (A)   in the case of a natural person, the person to whom the
subpoena is directed, or

         (B)   in the case of a person other than a natural person, a
person having knowledge of the facts and circumstances relating to such
production and authorized to act on behalf of such person.

The certificate shall state that all of the documentary material
required by the demand and in the possession, custody, or control of the
person to whom the subpoena is directed has been produced and made
available to the corporation counsel.

      (2)   Production of materials. Any person upon whom any subpoena
for the production of documentary material has been served under this
section shall make such material available for inspection and copying to
the Corporation Counsel at the place designated in the subpoena, or at
such other place as the Corporation Counsel and the person thereafter
may agree and prescribe in writing, or as the court may direct under
subsection (j)(1). Such material shall be made so available on the
return date specified in such subpoena, or on such later date as the
Corporation Counsel may prescribe in writing. Such person may, upon
written agreement between the person and the Corporation Counsel,
substitute copies for originals of all or any part of such material.

   (g)   Interrogatories. Each interrogatory in a subpoena served under
this section shall be answered separately and fully in writing under
oath and shall be submitted under a sworn certificate, in such form as
the subpoena designates by:

      (1)   in the case of a natural person, the person to whom the
subpoena is directed, or

      (2)   in the case of a person other than a natural person, the
person or persons responsible for answering each interrogatory.

If any interrogatory is objected to, the reasons for the objection shall
be stated in the certificate instead of an answer. The certificate shall
state that all information required by the subpoena and in the
possession, custody, control, or knowledge of the person to whom the
demand is directed has been submitted. To the extent that any
information is not furnished, the information shall be identified and
reasons set forth with particularity regarding the reasons why the
information was not furnished.

   (h)   Oral examinations.

      (1)   Procedures. The examination of any person pursuant to a
subpoena for oral testimony served under this section shall be taken
before an officer authorized to administer oaths and affirmations by the
laws of this state or of the place where the examination is held. The
officer before whom the testimony is to be taken shall put the witness
on oath or affirmation and shall, personally or by someone acting under
the direction of the officer and in the officer’s presence, including by
video conference, record the testimony of the witness. The testimony
shall be taken stenographically and shall be transcribed. When the
testimony is fully transcribed, the officer before whom the testimony is
taken shall promptly transmit a certified copy of the transcript of the
testimony in accordance with the instructions of the Corporation
Counsel. This subsection shall not preclude the taking of testimony by
any means authorized by, and in a manner consistent with, the Code of
Civil Procedure.

      (2)   Persons present. The investigator conducting the examination
shall exclude from the place where the examination is held all persons
except the person giving the testimony, the attorney for and any other
representative of the person giving the testimony, the attorney for and
any other representative of the City, any person who may be agreed upon
by the attorney for the City and the person giving the testimony, the
officer before whom the testimony is to be taken, and any stenographer
taking such testimony.

      (3)   Where testimony taken. The oral testimony of any person
taken pursuant to a subpoena served under this section shall be taken in
the county within which such person resides, is found, or transacts
business, by video conference, or in such other place as may be agreed
upon by the Corporation Counsel and such person.

      (4)   Transcript of testimony. When the testimony is fully
transcribed, the Corporation Counsel or the officer before whom the
testimony is taken shall afford the witness, who may be accompanied by
counsel, a reasonable opportunity to review and correct the transcript,
in accordance with the rules applicable to deposition witnesses in civil
cases. Upon payment of reasonable charges, the Corporation Counsel shall
furnish a copy of the transcript to the witness, except that the
Corporation Counsel may, for good cause, limit the witness to inspection
of the official transcript of the witness’ testimony.

      (5)   Conduct of oral testimony.

         (A)   Any person compelled to appear for oral testimony under a
subpoena issued under subsection (a) may be accompanied, represented,
and advised by counsel, who may raise objections based on matters of
privilege in accordance with the rules applicable to depositions in
civil cases. If such person refuses to answer any question, a petition
may be filed in circuit court under subsection (j)(1) for an order
compelling such person to answer such question.

         (B)   If such person refuses any question on the grounds of the
privilege against self-incrimination, the testimony of such person may
be compelled in accordance with Article 106 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure of 1963.

      (6)   Witness fees and allowances. Any person appearing for oral
testimony under a subpoena issued under subsection (a) shall be entitled
to the same fees and allowances which are paid to witnesses in the
circuit court.

   (i)   Custodians of documents, answers, and transcripts.

      (1)   Designation. The Corporation Counsel, or his designees,
shall serve as custodian of documentary material, answers to
interrogatories, and transcripts of oral testimony received under this
section.

      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no documentary
material, answers to interrogatories, or transcripts of oral testimony,
or copies thereof, while in the possession of the custodian, shall be
available for examination by any individual, except as determined
necessary by the Corporation Counsel and subject to the conditions
imposed by him or her for effective enforcement of the laws of this
City, or as otherwise provided by court order.

      (3)   Conditions for return of material. If any documentary
material has been produced by any person in the course of any
investigation pursuant to a subpoena under this section and:

         (A)   any case or proceeding before the court or grand jury
arising out of such investigation, or any proceeding before any city
agency involving such material, has been completed, or

         (B)   no case or proceeding in which such material may be used
has been commenced within a reasonable time after completion of the
examination and analysis of all documentary material and other
information assembled in the course of such investigation, the custodian
shall, upon written request of the person who produced such material,
return to such person any such material which has not passed into the
control of any court, grand jury, or agency through introduction into
the record of such case or proceeding.

   (j)   Judicial proceedings.

      (1)   Petition for enforcement. Whenever any person fails to
comply with any subpoena issued under subsection (a), or whenever
satisfactory copying or reproduction of any material requested in such
demand cannot be done and such person refuses to surrender such
material, the Corporation Counsel may file, in the circuit court of any
county in which such person resides, is found, or transacts business, or
the circuit court of the county in which an action filed pursuant to
Section 1-22-030 is pending if the action relates to the subject matter
of the subpoena and serve upon such person a petition for an order of
such court for the enforcement of the subpoena. In any action brought
under this subsection, the Corporation Counsel may petition the court to
grant any one or more of the following remedies:

         (A)   grant injunctive relief restraining the sale or
advertisement of any merchandise by the person or the conduct of any
trade or commerce that is involved;

         (B)   revoke or suspend any license, permit, or certificate
issued to such person that is used to further the allegedly unlawful act
or practice;

         (C)   order the person to pay the City’s reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs enforcing the subpoena;

         (D)   order the person to pay a fine to the City not to exceed
$1,000 per day that the person unreasonably failed to comply with the
subpoena in whole or in part; and

         (E)   grant other relief as may be required until the person
obeys the subpoena.

      (2)   Petition to modify or set aside subpoena.

         (A)   Any person who has received a subpoena issued under
subsection (a) may file, in the Circuit Court of Cook County and serve
upon the Corporation Counsel a petition for an order of the court to
modify or set aside such subpoena. In the case of a petition addressed
to an express demand for any product of discovery, a petition to modify
or set aside such demand may be brought only in the circuit court of the
county in which the proceeding in which such discovery was obtained is
or was last pending. Any petition under this subparagraph (A) must be
filed:

            (i)   within 20 days after the date of service of the
subpoena, or at any time before the return date specified in the
subpoena, whichever date is earlier, or

            (ii)   within such longer period as may be prescribed in
writing by Corporation Counsel.

         If the person does not file a petition under this subparagraph
(A) by the deadline specified in this subsection (J)(2)(A)(i), then the
person waives any non-jurisdictional defenses to a petition seeking to
enforce the subpoena under subsection (j)(1).

      (B)   The petition shall specify each ground upon which the
petitioner relies in seeking relief under subparagraph (A), and may be
based upon any failure of the subpoena to comply with the provisions of
this section or upon any constitutional or other legal right or
privilege of such person. During the pendency of the petition in the
court, the court may stay, as it deems proper, the running of the time
allowed for compliance with the subpoena, in whole or in part, except
that the person filing the petition shall comply with any portion of the
subpoena not sought to be modified or set aside.

      (3)   Petition to modify or set aside demand for product of
discovery. In the case of any subpoena issued under subsection (a) which
is an express demand for any product of discovery, the person from whom
such discovery was obtained may file, in the circuit court of the county
in which the proceeding in which such discovery was obtained is or was
last pending, a petition for an order of such court to modify or set
aside those portions of the subpoena requiring production of any such
product of discovery, subject to the same terms, conditions, and
limitations set forth in subparagraph (j)(2) of this section.

      (4)   Jurisdiction. Whenever any petition is filed in any circuit
court under this subsection (j), such court shall have jurisdiction to
hear and determine the matter so presented, and to enter such orders as
may be required to carry out the provisions of this section. Any final
order so entered shall be subject to appeal in the same manner as
appeals of other final orders in civil matters. Any disobedience of any
final order entered under this section by any court shall be punished as
a contempt of the court.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p.
88797, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. VI, § 1)

1-22-060 Procedure.

   The Illinois Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to all proceedings
under this chapter, except when that code is inconsistent with this
chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 39918, § 1)

CHAPTER 1-23
QUALIFICATIONS RELATING TO CITY BUSINESS OR CITY BENEFITS

Article I. Ineligibility to Do Business with the City

1-23-010   Definitions.

1-23-020   Ineligibility to do business with the city.

1-23-030   Duty to maintain eligibility to do business with the city.

1-23-040   Failure to maintain eligibility to do business with the city.

1-23-050   Rulemaking authority.

Article II. Ineligibility to Enter into City Transactions

1-23-100   Ineligibility as to city transactions.

Article III. Eligibility of Public Museums and Disproportionate Share
Hospitals for Fee Waivers

1-23-300   Fee waivers.

Article IV. Ineligibility for Licenses and Permits

1-23-400   Issuance of licenses and permits prohibited.

ARTICLE I. INELIGIBILITY TO DO BUSINESS WITH THE CITY (1-23-010 et seq.)

1-23-010 Definitions.

   As used in this article:

   "Action" has the meaning ascribed to the term "city action" set forth
in Section 2-154-010, but shall not include city action with respect to
real property tax reclassification, zoning, and vacation of streets and
alleys.

   "Business entity" means any firm, sole proprietorship, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company,
association, business trust, business estate, joint venture or other
commercial or legal entity of any type, in its own capacity or as
administrator, conservator, guardian, executive, trustee, receiver or
other representative appointed by the court.

   "City" means the City of Chicago.

   "Controlling person" means any person who (1) is an officer,
director, manager, managing member, partner, general partner or limited
partner of any business entity; or (2) owns, directly or indirectly
through one or more intermediate ownership entities, more than 7.5% of
the ownership interest in any business entity; or (3) controls, directly
or indirectly through one or more intermediate ownership entities, the
day-to-day management of any business entity. Indicia of control shall
include, but are not limited to, those indicia of control set forth in
subsection (a) of Section 2-92-320.

   "Doing business" or "do business" means to make application for any
action, as defined in this section, that requires the submission of
disclosures and information under Section 2-154-010. The term(s) "doing
business" or "do business" does not include participation in any
city-sponsored public auction or sale of real estate.

   "Hate crime" means any crime committed on the basis of the victim's
perceived or actual race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, or
national origin of an individual or group of individuals.

   "Natural person" means any natural individual in his or her own
capacity or as administrator, conservator, guardian, executive, trustee,
receiver or other representative appointed by the court.

   "Sister agency" means the Chicago Public Schools, Chicago Park
District, Chicago Transit Authority, City Colleges of Chicago, Chicago
Housing Authority or Public Building Commission.

   "Treason, sedition, or related offenses" means treason, misprision of
treason, rebellion, insurrection, seditious conspiracy, prohibited
civilian military activity, advocating the overthrow of the federal
government or any political subdivision thereof, or the use of force or
other lawless action to overthrow, or the incitement of others to engage
in imminent lawless action to overthrow, the federal government or any
political subdivision thereof, or equivalent offenses under any local,
state or federal law.

(Added Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95061, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-8-10, p. 99116,
§ 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-23-22, p. 45580, § 1)

1-23-020 Ineligibility to do business with the city.

   (a)   Ineligibility due to a conviction. No natural person or
business entity shall be eligible to do business with the City if such
natural person, business entity or any controlling person of such
business entity has ever been convicted or in custody, under parole or
under any other non-custodial supervision resulting from a conviction in
a court of any jurisdiction for the commission of a felony of any kind,
or of a criminal offense of whatever degree, involving:

      (1)   bribery or attempted bribery, or its equivalent under any
local, state or federal law, of any public officer or employee of the
City of Chicago or of any sister agency; or

      (2)   theft, fraud, forgery, perjury, dishonesty or deceit, or
attempted theft, fraud, forgery, perjury, dishonesty or deceit, or its
equivalent under any local, state or federal law, against the City of
Chicago or of any sister agency; or

      (3)   conspiring to engage in any of the acts set forth in items
(1) or (2) of this subsection (a); or

      (4)   any hate crime; or

      (5)   treason, sedition, or related offenses.

   (b)   Ineligibility due to an admission of guilt. No natural person
or business entity shall be eligible to do business with the City if
such natural person or business entity or any controlling person of such
business entity has made in any civil or criminal proceeding an
admission of guilt of any of the conduct set forth in items (1) through
(5), inclusive, of subsection (a) of this section, under circumstances
where such admission of guilt is a matter of record but has not resulted
in criminal prosecution for such conduct.

   (c)   Ineligibility due to the filing of charges or indictment. No
natural person or business entity shall be eligible to do business with
the City if such natural person or business entity or any controlling
person of such business entity is charged with or indicted for any
felony or criminal offense set forth in items (1) through (5),
inclusive, of subsection (a) of this section. Such ineligibility shall
remain in effect until final adjudication is made with respect to such
felony or criminal offense.

   (d)   Ineligibility due to debarment by a government agency. No
natural person or business entity shall be eligible to do business with
the City if such natural person or business entity or any controlling
person of such business entity has been debarred by any local, state or
federal government agency from doing business with such government
agency, for any reason or offense set forth in subsections (a), (b), or
(c) of this section, or substantially equivalent reason or offense, for
the duration of the debarment by such government agency.

   (e)   Ineligibility due to removal from public office. No natural
person or business entity shall be eligible to do business with the City
if such natural person or any controlling person of such business entity
has ever been removed from public office.

   (f)   Successor business entities. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section, if a business entity seeking to do business
with the City ("the applicant entity") acquires or is merged with a
business entity that is ineligible under this section to do business
with the City ("the prohibited entity"), such applicant entity shall be
eligible to do business with the City if all of the following apply: (1)
no controlling person of such applicant entity has made an admission of
guilt or been convicted, charged or indicted for any of the criminal
conduct forming the basis of the prohibited entity's ineligibility to do
business with the City; and (2) no person who was a controlling person
of the prohibited entity at the time such criminal conduct occurred is a
controlling person of the applicant entity; and (3) all other
eligibility requirements of this section have been met by the applicant
entity and all controlling persons thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95061, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-5-16, p.
33564, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-23-22, p. 45580, § 2)

1-23-030 Duty to maintain eligibility to do business with the city.

   Eligibility under Section 1-23-020 to do business with the city shall
be a continuing requirement for doing business with the city.

(Added Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95061, § 1)

1-23-040 Failure to maintain eligibility to do business with the city.

   The failure of any natural person, business entity or controlling
person to maintain eligibility to do business with the City in violation
of Section 1-23-030 shall render any action, as defined in Section
1-23-010, in behalf of or in any way connected to such natural person,
business entity or controlling person voidable or subject to termination
or revocation, as applicable, at the option of the Chief Procurement
Officer after consultation with the City department or agency involved
in such action. Provided, however, that no such action shall be voided,
terminated or revoked by the Chief Procurement Officer if, upon written
application to the Chief Procurement Officer, the head of the City
department or agency involved in such action sets forth facts sufficient
in the judgment of the Chief Procurement Officer to establish (1) that
the public health, safety or welfare of the City requires such action or
the goods or services provided as a result of such action; or (2) that
the City is unable to acquire the goods or services provided as a result
of such action at comparable price and quality, or in sufficient
quantity, from other sources.

(Added Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95061, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-9-16, p.
36266, § 1)

1-23-050 Rulemaking authority.

   The corporation counsel and chief procurement officer are authorized
to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement the
requirements of this article.

(Added Coun. J. 6-30-10, p. 95061, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-8-10, p. 99116,
§ 1)

ARTICLE II. INELIGIBILITY TO ENTER INTO CITY TRANSACTIONS (1-23-100 et
seq.)

1-23-100 Ineligibility as to city transactions.

   As further specified in Section 2-92-320, no person determined by the
chief procurement officer to be ineligible may be a party to a
transaction, and any existing transaction with such person may be
subject to termination and repayment to the city of any amounts
disbursed thereunder.

   The chief procurement officer is authorized to promulgate regulations
to administer and enforce this article.

(Added Coun. J. 9-8-10, p. 99116, § 2)

ARTICLE III. ELIGIBILITY OF PUBLIC MUSEUMS AND DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE
HOSPITALS FOR FEE WAIVERS (1-23-300 et seq.)

1-23-300 Fee waivers.

   Except as otherwise explicitly provided in this Code, if the
applicant for any city license or permit is (1) a public museum and such
public museum is eligible to receive funds for capital development under
subdivision (7) of § 1-25 of the Department of Natural Resources Act, as
amended, codified at 20 ILCS 801/1-1 et seq., or (2) a not-for-profit
hospital that qualifies for a disproportionate share adjustment
consistent with Section 148.120 of Subchapter d of Chapter I of Title 89
of the Illinois Administrative Code, as amended, codified at 89 Ill.
Adm. Code § 148.120, such public museum or disproportionate share
hospital shall be exempt from payment of 20% of any license fee, permit
fee, application fee or inspection fee that would other otherwise apply
in connection with the procurement of such license or permit. Provided,
however, that the fee waiver authorized under this section shall not
apply in connection with any monies owed by the City to any third party
for any service provided to the City by such third party under the
department of building's developer services program or under any other
city program.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. VIII, § 1)

ARTICLE IV. INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS (1-23-400 et seq.)

1-23-400 Issuance of licenses and permits prohibited.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:

      (1)   The term "25 percent or greater interest in the applicant or
property owner" shall mean 25 percent or more of the combined voting
power or fair market value of all stock, partnership interests or other
ownership interests in the applicant or property owner, or the right to
receive at any time the distribution of 25 percent or greater income or
profits of the applicant or property owner. Provided, however, that with
respect to those licenses or permits for which disclosure of a lesser
percentage of ownership interest is required under this Code, including,
but not limited to, licenses issued under Chapter 4-60, the percentage
of ownership set forth in the specific ordinance establishing such
license or permit shall be substituted for the term "25 percent" in the
above definition.

      (2)   The term "responsible party" shall mean (i) the applicant
for such license or permit or (ii) the property owner identified in the
applicable application or (iii) any person owning, directly or
indirectly, a 25 percent or greater interest in the applicant or
property owner.

   (b)   License and permit issuance prohibited.

      (1)   No person shall be eligible to obtain any license or permit
of any type issued under this Code, and no such license or permit shall
be issued by the applicable department, if a responsible party, or any
entity in which a responsible party has a 25 percent or greater
interest, has any debt, as defined in Section 2-32-094(a), unless and
until each applicable person owing such debt satisfies or otherwise
resolves the debt within the meaning of Section 2-32-094(a).

      (2)   No person shall be eligible to obtain any license issued
under Title 4 or Title 9 of this Code or any permit issued under Title
14A of this Code, and no such license or permit shall be issued by the
applicable department, if the applicant for such license or permit or
any person owning, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or greater
interest in the applicant or property owner, at the time of application
for such license or permit, has been identified as a building code
scofflaw pursuant to Section 2-92-416 of this Code. Except as otherwise
specified by rule, the prohibition in this subparagraph (2) shall apply
at all times such applicant or person remains a building code scofflaw.

      (3)   Any applicant for any license issued under Title 4 or Title
9 of this Code or any permit issued under Title 14A of this Code shall
certify to the City with his application whether or not such applicant
or any person owning, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or greater
interest in the applicant or property owner is, at the time of
application for such license or permit, identified as a building code
scofflaw pursuant to Section 2-92-416 of this Code.

   (c)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any permit or
license sought by any local, state, or federal government agency. Nor
shall this section apply to (1) any permit issued by the Department of
Buildings for a permit for a type of work described in Table
14A-12-1204.2 or emergency repairs as determined by the Building
Commissioner, or (2) any license or permit issued by any department if
the applicable department head determines that immediate issuance of the
applicable license or permit is necessary to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare, or otherwise necessary to comply with mandatory
state or federal laws that preempt the City's home rule authority, and
all other applicable requirements for issuance of such license or permit
have been met.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. XI, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12,
p. 27485, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 1-21-15, p. 102428, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
4-21-21, p. 29948, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-27-21, p. 39543, Art. IV, § 1)

CHAPTER 1-24
RESERVED*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-25-21, p. 32156, § 6, repealed Ch. 1-24,
which pertained to the Chicago minimum wage and paid sick leave
ordinance. For current provisions, see Ch. 6-105.

CHAPTER 1-25
RESERVED*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-25-21, p. 32156, § 6, repealed Ch. 1-25,
which pertained to the Chicago fair workweek ordinance. For current
provisions, see Ch. 6-110.

TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SAFETY

   Ch. 7-4   Lead-Bearing Substances

   Ch. 7-12   Animal Care and Control

   Ch. 7-16   Births and Deaths

   Ch. 7-20   Contagious and Epidemic Diseases

   Ch. 7-22   Concussion Injuries in Student Athletes in Chicago Schools

   Ch. 7-24   Drugs and Narcotics

   Ch. 7-28   Health Nuisances

   Ch. 7-30   Plastic Bag and Film Plastic Recycling Ordinance

   Ch. 7-32   Chicago Clean Indoor Air Ordinance of 2008

   Ch. 7-36   Toy Safety

   Ch. 7-38   Food Establishments – Sanitary Operating Requirements

   Ch. 7-39   Reserved

   Ch. 7-40   Food Establishments – Care of Foods

   Ch. 7-42   Food Establishments – Inspections, Violations and Hearing
Procedures

   Ch. 7-44   Extermination by Fumigation

   Ch. 7-50   Wireless Communication

   Ch. 7-51   Chicago Prepaid Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge

   Ch. 7-52   Hotel Automated External Defibrillator Ordinance

   Ch. 7-58   Emergency Energy Plan

   Ch. 7-59   Natural Gas Emergency Response Plan

CHAPTER 7-4
LEAD-BEARING SUBSTANCES

7-4-010   Definitions.

7-4-020   Lead-bearing substance use.

7-4-030   Maintenance of residential buildings, child care facilities
and schools.

7-4-040   Sale, transfer, or distribution of items containing
lead-bearing substances.

7-4-050   Reserved.

7-4-060   Warning statement.

7-4-065   Notice – Required.

7-4-070   Child care facilities must require blood lead level screening
for admission.

7-4-075   Child care facilities must provide informational pamphlet.

7-4-080   Fees.

7-4-090   Inspection of buildings and commercial establishments.

7-4-095   Subpoena powers.

7-4-100   Procedures upon determination of lead-bearing substance.

7-4-105   Owner's obligation to post notice.

7-4-110   Manner of abatement of lead hazards.

7-4-115   Reporting requirements.

7-4-120   Violations.

7-4-130   Rules and regulations.

7-4-140   Emergency measures.

7-4-150   Remedies.

7-4-160   Enforcement.

7-4-010 Definitions.

   (1)   "Child care facility" means any structure used by a child care
provider, school or other facility frequented by children.

   (2)   "Children" means natural persons six years of age and younger.

   (3)   "Commercial establishment" means any place that provides a
business service or involves the selling, leasing or renting of
merchandise to the general public or the manufacture or distribution of
merchandise to others who sell to the general public.

   (4)   "Commissioner" means the commissioner of public health or his
designee.

   (5)   "Department" means the department of public health.

   (6)   "Dwelling" means any building which is wholly or partly used or
intended to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants.

   (7)   "Exposed surface" means any interior or exterior surface of a
child care facility, school, dwelling or residential building.

   (8)   "Lead-bearing substance" means any of the following if they
contain an amount equal to or greater than the amount of lead by weight
that the commissioner determines by regulation may pose a significant
health hazard to humans:

      (a)   soil;

      (b)   dust on any permanent or nonpermanent surface of the
dwelling, residential building, child care facility or school;

      (c)   items, substances and surfaces that are edible or chewable
by or accessible to children, including toys, furniture or decorative
objects;

      (d)   food or other ingestible substances or items; and

      (e)   paint or other surface coating material.

   The regulations promulgated by the commissioner under this
subparagraph (8) shall be based upon lead levels established, utilized,
recommended or offered as guidance by an agency of the federal
government or by a state government.

   (9)   "Lead hazard" means a lead-bearing substance that poses a
significant health hazard to humans.

   (10)   "Lead poisoning" means the condition of having blood lead
levels in excess of those considered safe under applicable regulations
promulgated by the commissioner.

   (11)   "Owner" means any person, who alone, jointly or severally with
others:

      (a)   Has legal title to or a beneficial interest in a land trust
or other entity having legal title to a child care facility, school,
commercial establishment, dwelling or residential building with or
without accompanying actual possession of the child care facility,
school, commercial establishment, dwelling or residential building, and
includes any agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee
or guardian of the estate of the owner;

      (b)   Has charge, care or control of or responsibility for a child
care facility, school, commercial establishment, dwelling or residential
building; or

      (c)   Has an interest as a purchaser under a real estate
installment contract in a child care facility, commercial establishment,
dwelling or residential building.

   (12)   "Person" means "person" as defined in Section 1-4-090 of the
Municipal Code.

   (13)   "Residential building" means any room, group of rooms, or
other interior areas of a structure designed or used for human
habitation; common areas accessible by inhabitants; and the surrounding
property or structures.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-020 Lead-bearing substance use.

   No person shall use or apply lead-bearing substances:

   (a)   In or upon any exposed surface of a dwelling or dwelling unit;

   (b)   In or around the exposed surfaces of a residential building,
child care facility, school or other structure frequented by children;

   (c)   In or upon any fixtures or other objects used, installed, or
located in or upon any exposed surface of a dwelling or residential
building, child care facility, school, or intended to be so used,
installed, or located and that in the ordinary course of use, are
accessible to and chewable by children;

   (d)   In or upon any toys, furniture, or other articles used by and
chewable by children;

   (e)   Within or upon a residential building or dwelling, child care
facility, school, playground, park or recreational area, or other areas
regularly frequented by children.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561)

7-4-030 Maintenance of residential buildings, child care facilities and
schools.

   It is the duty of every owner of a dwelling, residential building,
child care facility or school to maintain the dwelling, residential
building, child care facility or school in such a manner so as to
prevent the existence of a lead hazard.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, §
3.24; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-040 Sale, transfer or distribution of items containing lead-bearing
substances.

   No person shall have, offer for sale, transfer, distribute to the
public, place in the stream of commerce, or manufacture any item that
contains a lead-bearing substance. These items include but are not
limited to:

   (a)   any jewelry item, toy, or furniture, excluding antique items,
that in the ordinary course of use is accessible to or chewable by
children;

   (b)   any fixture or other object intended to be used, installed or
located in or upon any surface of a dwelling or residential building,
child care facility or school and that, in the ordinary course of use,
is accessible to or chewable by children;

   (c)   any food or edible item or package or container for food or
edible items which contains lead either in excess of a level set by the
commissioner or in any concentration that exceeds a United States Food
and Drug Administration guideline; and

   (d)   any non-edible item that, in the ordinary course of use, is
accessible to or chewable or ingestible by children.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-050 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1, repealed § 7-4-050,
which pertained to the sale of objects containing lead- bearing
substances.

7-4-060 Warning statement.

   No person shall have, offer for sale, sell or give away any lead
bearing substance that may be used by the general public unless it bears
the warning statement as prescribed by the State of Illinois pursuant to
410 ILCS 45/6, as amended.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-065 Notice – Required.

   Any commercial establishment that offers paint or other supplies
intended for the removal of paint shall display, in a prominent and
easily visible location, a poster or provide a brochure, containing, at
a minimum, the following: (1) a statement that dry sanding and dry
scraping or paint in dwellings built before 1978 is dangerous; (2) a
statement that the improver removal of old paint is a significant source
of lead dust, the primary cause of lead poisoning; and (3) contact
information where consumers can obtain more information. A commercial
establishment may utilize the poster or brochure available from the
Department or from the Illinois Department of Public Health or from
another source so long as it meets the minimum criteria of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-070 Child care facilities must require blood lead level screening
for admission.

   Any person who owns or manages a day care center, day care home,
preschool, nursery school, kindergarten or other child care facility
licensed or approved by the State of Illinois or the department,
including such programs operated by a public school district, shall
require that each parent or legal guardian of a child between the ages
of six months through six years provide a statement from a physician or
health care provider that the child has been screened for lead
poisoning. This statement must indicate that the screening of the child
has been performed in accordance with applicable criteria mandated by
the Illinois Department of Public Health and the commissioner. This
statement shall be provided prior to admission and subsequently in
conjunction with required physical examinations.

   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any child to
undergo a blood lead level screening or test whose parent or guardian
objects on the grounds that the screening or test conflicts with his or
her religious beliefs.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-075 Child care facilities must provide informational pamphlet.

   Each day care center, day care home, preschool, nursery school,
kindergarten or other child care facility licensed or approved by the
State of Illinois or the department, including such programs operated by
a public school district, shall annually send or deliver to the parents
or guardians of children six years and younger an informational pamphlet
regarding awareness of lead poisoning. A pamphlet provided by the
Illinois Department of Public Health for this purpose shall also be
acceptable.

(Added Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-080 Fees.

   The department may establish fees according to a reasonable fee
structure to cover the cost of inspections and providing a testing
service for laboratory analysis of blood lead tests and any necessary
follow-up. The commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations for
waiving applicable fees for low-income persons.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561)

7-4-090 Inspection of buildings and commercial establishments.

   An authorized representative of the City of Chicago charged with
enforcement of this ordinance, upon presentation if requested of the
appropriate credentials to the owner, occupant or his representative,
may inspect child care facilities, schools, dwellings and residential
buildings at reasonable times, for the purposes of ascertaining that all
surfaces accessible to children are intact and in good repair, and for
purposes of ascertaining the existence of lead-bearing substances. An
authorized representative of the city may also inspect soil surrounding
of said facilities and may also inspect commercial establishments for
the purposes of ascertaining whether any lead-bearing substances or lead
hazards are present. Such representative may remove samples or objects
necessary for laboratory analysis. If a person entitled to withhold
consent to an inspection refuses to allow inspection, a representative
of the city may apply for a warrant to permit entry.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-095 Subpoena powers.

   The commissioner shall have the power to issue subpoenas to owners of
commercial establishments suspected of violating Sections 7-4-040 and
7-4-060 of this chapter to ascertain what goods and services are being
bought, sold, manufactured, distributed or resold as well as to whom and
from whom they are being sold. Upon determination that there is a
lead-bearing substance in or upon any dwelling, residential building,
child care facility and school, the commissioner shall have the power to
subpoena the owners of the dwelling, residential building, child care
facility or school only for the purposes of ascertaining who performed
work or who was contracted to perform work to remove a lead- bearing
substance or hazard or any work which has disturbed a lead-bearing
substance or caused a lead hazard.

(Added Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-100 Procedures upon determination of lead- bearing substance.

   (a)   Upon determination that there is a lead- bearing substance in
or upon any child care facility, school, dwelling or residential
building which could reasonably be hazardous to children, the City of
Chicago shall, as soon as is practicable, give appropriate notice to the
owner of a child care facility, school, dwelling or residential
building, of the existence and location of a lead hazard. In addition,
regardless of whether there has been compliance with the preceding
sentence, the city shall take action as needed to enforce this chapter,
including, as the city or its authorized representative may determine is
appropriate:

      (1)   Providing the owner and occupants with suitable
recommendations for elimination of the problem areas;

      (2)   Notifying the other persons or entities with responsibility
for a child care facility, school, dwelling, or residential building of
the existence and location of such substances;

      (3)   Ordering that these substances be removed, replaced, or
securely covered within a specified time period and in a manner
prescribed by the department;

      (4)   Pursuing the remedies provided for in Sections 7-4-140 and
7-4-150.

   (b)   Upon determination that a commercial establishment is handling
goods, products or items containing a lead-bearing substance, the city
may take action as needed to enforce this chapter, including the
following, as the city or its authorized representative may determine is
appropriate:

      (1)   giving notice to the owner of the commercial establishment
of the existence of a lead- bearing substance or of a lead hazard
contained in the goods, products or items handled by the commercial
establishment;

      (2)   ordering the owner of the commercial establishment to cease
and desist selling, distributing or manufacturing the goods, products
and items containing a lead-bearing substance or lead hazard as provided
by Section 7-4-040 of this chapter;

      (3)   ordering the owner of the commercial establishment to remove
from distribution and sale any product, goods or items containing a
lead-bearing substance. If the lead-bearing component of a product is
removable, the commissioner may, at his discretion, allow the
lead-bearing component to be removed and the remaining product to be
sold, provided that the removal of the lead-bearing substance is noted
on the product's packaging. Owners are required to dispose of said
product or lead-bearing component in accordance with state or federal
law or regulations promulgated by the commissioner regarding the
disposal of food items; and

      (4)   pursuing the remedies provided for in Sections 7-4-140 and
7-4-150.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-105 Owner's obligation to post notice.

   The owner of a dwelling, residential building, child care facility,
or school who has received a notice of a lead hazard pursuant to Section
7-4-100(a) shall post notices in common areas of the building specifying
the identified lead hazards. The posted notices, drafted by the
department and sent to the property owner with the notification, shall
indicate the following:

      (1)   that unit(s) in or areas of the building have been found to
have lead hazards;

      (2)   that other units or areas of the building may have lead
hazards;

      (3)   that the department recommends that children 6 years of age
or younger receive a blood lead screening; and

      (4)   where to seek further information and request an inspection
of additional units in the building from the department.

   Once the owner has abated the hazards to the satisfaction of the
department and received a Notice of Compliance from the department, the
owner may remove the notices posted pursuant to this section.

(Added Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-110 Manner of abatement of lead hazards.

   (a)   The removal of the lead-bearing substance from the dwelling,
residential building, child care facility, or school shall be
accomplished in a manner consistent with all rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to this chapter concerning acceptable and safe
methods of lead hazard removal or abatement, and in a manner which will
not endanger the health or well- being of its occupants, and will result
in the safe removal from the premises, and the safe disposition of
flakes, chips, debris, dust and other potentially harmful materials. No
person may conduct lead abatement and/or lead hazard removal in a manner
that increases exposure of any person to lead-bearing substances or a
lead hazard in or around a dwelling, residential building, child care
facility or school.

   (b)   The commissioner or his authorized representative is authorized
to remove from a commercial establishment a sample of any products or
goods which are suspected to contain a lead-bearing substance for the
purpose of testing for compliance with department rules and regulations.
The commissioner or his authorized representative is further authorized
to order the removal or embargo of any goods or products from a
commercial establishment after the goods or products have been tested or
found not to be in compliance with this ordinance or state or federal
law. Tests to determine if a product is a lead-bearing substance shall
be conducted using standardized methodologies, as determined by the
commissioner in regulation. Test results shall be made available to the
owner of the commercial establishment.

   (c)   The department of public health shall maintain a report of any
products which were taken for testing, or otherwise removed or disposed
of under subsection 7-4-110(b). Such report shall be made available for
public inspection. The contents of such report shall identify the
products taken, removed, or disposed of, the approximate retail value of
the products, the results of any lead testing performed and other
information as determined by the commissioner by rule.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-115 Reporting requirements.

   Any person who orders, authorizes, analyzes or performs a test to
determine the blood lead level of a Chicago resident and is required to
report the results of such test pursuant to Section 7 of the Illinois
Lead Poisoning Prevention Act shall also report the results of such test
to the department. The commissioner is authorized to promulgate
regulations necessary to implement this section.

(Added Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-120 Violations.

   (a)   Violation of any section of this chapter or any failure to
comply with any order authorized pursuant to this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for
each offense. Each day that such violation or noncompliance exists shall
be considered a separate offense.

   (b)   Any person found liable or guilty of a third or subsequent
violation of this chapter and/or of a third or subsequent failure to
comply with any order authorized pursuant to this chapter on three
different days within a two-year period shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense, and may
be punished by a period of incarceration not to exceed six months, or
both. Each day that such violation or noncompliance exists shall be
considered a separate offense.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-130 Rules and regulations.

   The commissioner is authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and
regulations for carrying out the provisions of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, §
1)

7-4-140 Emergency measures.

   When the commissioner finds that because of a violation of this
chapter, an emergency condition exists requiring immediate action to
protect the health of any person, or when the commissioner makes any
determination under Section 7-4-100(b), the commissioner may issue an
emergency order reciting the existence of the emergency condition and
requiring that necessary actions be taken to meet the emergency. An
emergency order shall be effective immediately, and any person to whom
an emergency order is directed shall comply therewith within the period
of time specified in the order. Any such person shall receive a
reasonably prompt notice of their right to a prompt hearing conducted by
an administrative law officer of the buildings hearings division of the
department of administrative hearings, pursuant to the procedures
established for such hearings. Pending the hearing, the commissioner may
take whatever steps are necessary to execute the emergency order when
necessary to protect the health of any person.

   The entire cost of abatement and relocation actions taken or caused
to be taken by the City of Chicago pursuant to this section shall be
recoverable from each of the persons responsible for correcting the
violations or giving rise to the emergency conditions by bringing an
action in a court of competent jurisdiction or at the department of
administrative hearings pursuant to Chapter 1-20 of this Municipal Code
or other applicable law.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24982;
Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56813; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-06, p. 94902, § 1)

7-4-150 Remedies.

   (a)   The corporation counsel may seek relief with respect to any
violation of this chapter by filing an appropriate action in a court of
competent jurisdiction or the department of administrative hearings
seeking equitable relief or the penalties contained in Section 7-4-120,
or both.

   (b)   Upon determining that any person has not complied with an order
authorized pursuant to this chapter, the commissioner may cause such
person to appear at a hearing before an administrative law officer of
the buildings hearings division of the department of administrative
hearings. Hearings shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of
Article III (Buildings Hearings Division) of Chapter 2-14 of this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561; Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24982;
Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56813; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 9-27-00, p. 41614, § 1)

7-4-160 Enforcement.

   Any department of the City of Chicago may take appropriate action to
enforce any of the provisions of this chapter when a violation of any of
the provisions comes to its attention.

(Added Coun. J. 11-5-93, p. 40561)

CHAPTER 7-12
ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL

7-12-010   Reserved.

7-12-015   Reserved.

7-12-020   Definitions.

7-12-030   Animals shall be restrained.

7-12-040   Impounding animals that are stray.

7-12-050   Dangerous animals – Investigation, determination, and
requirements.

7-12-051   Dangerous animals – Violations.

7-12-052   Dangerous animals – Miscellaneous.

7-12-060   Redemption of impounded animals.

7-12-065   Redemption of dogs and cats.

7-12-070   Facilities to be used for impoundments.

7-12-080   Removal of neglected animal.

7-12-090   Owner's responsibility where animal has bitten another animal
or person.

7-12-100   Excessive animal noise – Prohibited.

7-12-110   Transfer of City-owned animals.

7-12-115   Rabies and distemper vaccinations; spay/neuter clinics.

7-12-120   Fees.

7-12-130   Refund of spaying deposit – Exchange of animal – Department's
right to repossess.

7-12-140   License required.

7-12-150   License application forms.

7-12-160   Rabies inoculation certificate.

7-12-170   License fees.

7-12-180   Exemptions from license requirements.

7-12-185   Temporary animal exhibitions – permit required.

7-12-190   Citations.

7-12-200   Rabies vaccination required.

7-12-210   Equine animal – License required – Fee – Display –
Exemptions.

7-12-220   Reserved.

7-12-230   Reserved.

7-12-240   Reserved.

7-12-250   Reserved.

7-12-260   Reserved.

7-12-270   Reserved.

7-12-280   Stables to be kept clean.

7-12-290   Cruelty to animals – Fines.

7-12-300   Ban of unlicensed possession of animals for slaughter.

7-12-310   Removal of injured or diseased animal from public way.

7-12-320   Reserved.

7-12-330   Burial of dead animals.

7-12-340   Notice to Department for removal of dead animal.

7-12-350   Dyeing baby chicks, other fowls or rabbits prohibited.

7-12-360   Wild or nondomesticated animals.

7-12-365   Coyote management program.

7-12-370   Animal fights and contests prohibited.

7-12-375   Reserved.

7-12-380   Reserved.

7-12-385   Reserved.

7-12-387   Restrictions on pigeons.

7-12-390   Transfer of animals – Records.

7-12-395   Enforcement.

7-12-400   Rules and regulations and inspections.

7-12-410   Reserved.

7-12-420   Removal of excrement.

7-12-430   Violation – Penalty.

7-12-010 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 3, repealed §
7-12-010, which created the Animal Care and Control Commission and its
Executive Director. See § 2-120-010 for current provisions.

7-12-015 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 4, repealed §
7-12-015, which set forth the powers and duties of the Executive
Director.

7-12-020 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter, the following are defined and shall be
construed as hereinafter set out unless it shall be apparent from the
context that a different meaning is intended:

   "Animal" means any living vertebrate, domestic or wild, not including
man.

   "Animal control center" means a facility operated by and under the
direct supervision of the Executive Director for the purpose of
impounding animals as henceforth set out in this chapter.

   "Animal control officer" means an employee of the Department who
shall be responsible to it and the Executive Director and have the power
and authority to issue citations for any violations of this ordinance
relating to the care, treatment, control or impoundment of animals.

   "Animal under restraint" means any animal:

      (1)   either secured by a leash or lead;

      (2)   within the premises of its owner, or confined within a crate
or cage, or confined within a vehicle, or on the premises of another
person with the consent of that person; provided that any animal not
secured by a leash or lead and that is outdoors on the premises of its
owner or outdoors on the premises of another person with consent of that
person shall not be considered under restraint unless the animal is on a
fenced portion of the premises and the fence is: (i) constructed to keep
the animal from reaching through the fence; and (ii) of sufficient
height appropriate to the size of the animal to prevent the animal from
jumping or reaching over the fence; or

      (3)   within an area specifically designated by the Chicago Park
District or by the City of Chicago as a dog park, or as an animal
exercise run; provided that the animal is under the control of a
competent person.

   "Bite" means seizure with the teeth or jaws of an animal so that the
skin of the human being or animal seized has been pierced or broken and
further includes contact of the saliva of the biting animal with any
break or abrasion of the skin of the human being or animal bitten.

   "Cat" means any live male or female cat (Felis catus).

   "City-owned animal" means an animal that has become the property of
the City through: (i) the City’s possession of the animal and the
owner’s failure to redeem the animal within the mandated time or (ii)
the owner’s voluntary transfer of possession of the animal to the City.

   "Commission" means the Commission on Animal Care and Control.

   "Dangerous animal" means an animal meeting any one of the following
criteria:

      (1)   any animal which bites, inflicts injury on, kills or
otherwise attacks a human being or domestic animal without provocation
on any public or private property; or

      (2)   Any animal which on more than one occasion, without
provocation, chases or approaches any person in an apparent attitude of
attack, on any public property or in any place outside or over the
boundaries of its owner's property; or

      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of dog or other animal fighting or any animal trained for dog or
other animal fighting; or

      (4)   Any dog that is used as a guard dog; or

      (5)   Any animal which has been found to be a vicious dog under
state law.

   "Department" means Chicago Animal Care and Control.

   "Dog" means any live male or female dog (Canis familiaris).

   "Euthanasia" or "humane destruction" means death brought about by any
method which produces instant loss of consciousness and results in
painless death.

   "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Department.

   "Foster home" means a private or public facility that the Director
has deemed suitable for the temporary care of animals, that accepts the
transfer of one or more animals from the Department and cares for that
animal until the Director effects the return of the animal to the
Department or places it for adoption.

   "Guard dog" means any dog used primarily for the purpose of
defending, patrolling, or protecting property or life at a commercial
establishment other than a farm; provided that, "Guard dog" does not
include stock dogs used primarily for handling and controlling livestock
or farm animals; provided further, that "Guard dog" shall not include
any dog that is the property of any local, state or federal government.

   "Horse" means an animal of the genus equus.

   "Impounded" means having been taken into the custody of the
Department or any other facility designated by the Executive Director.

   "Licensed dog" means any dog four months of age or older for which
the owner can produce proof of having paid the license fee for the
current year.

   "Microchip" means a passive electronic device that is injected into
an animal by means of a prepackaged sterilized implanting device for
purposes of identification or recovery.

   "Owner" means any person having a right of property in an animal or
who keeps or harbors any animal or who has an animal in his care or
custody.

   "Pet" means any species of domesticated animals customarily regarded
as suited to live within an abode used for human occupancy.

   "Provocation" means that the threat, injury or damage caused by the
animal was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner
of the animal, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime.

   "Severe injury" means any physical injury that results in death; loss
of soft tissue; a broken bone; hospitalization admittance; impairment of
any bodily function; disfiguring laceration; laceration requiring
sutures or cosmetic surgery; or lacerations or puncture wounds caused by
more than one bite.

   "Snakehead fish" means a fish of the Family Channidae.

   "Sterilization" or "sterilize" means the rendering of an animal
unable to reproduce by altering the animal's reproductive organs.
Sterilization includes the spaying of a female dog or cat, or the
neutering of a male dog or cat.

   "Stray animal" means any animal not under restraint and not in the
presence of its owner.

   "Vaccination" means the injection, as approved by the Department of
Agriculture, State of Illinois, of an antirabies vaccine approved by
said department, with verification thereof consisting of a current
certificate and current tag issued in accordance with the statutes of
the State of Illinois.

   "Veterinarian" means a person currently licensed by the State of
Illinois to engage in the practice of veterinarian medicine.

   "Visiting hours" means posted days and hours during which an animal
control center operated by the Department shall be kept open to the
public for the transaction of appropriate business, as established by
the Executive Director.

   "Animal care facility", "Animal Exhibition", "Guard dog", "Humane
society", "Pet show", and "Veterinary hospital" shall have the same
meaning ascribed to them as in Section 4-384-010 of this Code.

(Prior code § 98-2; Amend Coun. J. 10-16-84, p. 10165; Amend Coun. J.
10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J. 4-16-97, p. 42588; Amend Coun. J.
12-12-01, p. 75777, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-02, p. 94895, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81829, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p.
99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-07, p. 104624, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
9-5-07, p. 6584, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 47220, Art. III, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 5-25-18,
p. 77747, § 3)

7-12-030 Animals shall be restrained.

   Each owner shall keep and maintain his animal under restraint;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any dog being
used for rescue or law enforcement work. It shall be unlawful for any
owner to allow his or her animal to cross outside the property line of
its owner to any extent, including reaching through, over or under a
fence, or to keep or allow his or her animal to be outdoors on an
unfenced portion of the owner's property, unless the animal is leashed
and under the control of its owner or another responsible person;
provided that any animal not secured by a leash or lead and that is
outdoors on a fenced portion of the owner's property or outdoors on the
premises of another person with consent of that person shall not be
considered under restraint unless the fence is of sufficient height
appropriate to the size of the animal to prevent the animal from jumping
or reaching over the fence. In addition, it shall be an unlawful failure
to restrain for an animal to attack, bite, threaten, or jump on any
person without that person's consent, outside the property of the
animal's owner. The provisions of this section shall be a positive duty
of the owner and the offenses described herein shall be strict liability
offenses.

   Any owner who violates any provision of this section shall be subject
to a fine of $300.00, if the violation does not result in severe injury
or death to any person or damage to another person's property. If the
violation results in severe injury or death to any person, the owner
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000.00 and not more than
$10,000.00. In addition to a fine, the owner may be required to submit
full restitution to the victim or may be incarcerated for a period not
to exceed six months, or may be required to perform up to 100 hours of
community service, or any combination thereof. If the violation results
in damage to another person's property, the owner shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $300.00 and not more than $1,000.00. In addition
to a fine, the owner may be required to submit full restitution to the
victim.

(Prior code § 98-3; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J.
10-31-01, p. 71774, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 3.25; Amend
Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1)

7-12-040 Impounding animals that are stray.

   (a)   Any stray animal may be immediately impounded by an animal
control officer.

   (b)   An animal control officer may return a stray animal recovered
in the field if the animal control officer determines that its owner
resides within three miles of the site of recovery. If the animal is
left with the owner, the owner shall not be liable for the redemption
fee established in Section 7-12-120(a).

(Prior code § 98-3.1; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J.
3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. XII, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 4-18-18, p. 75057, § 1)

7-12-050 Dangerous animals – Investigation, determination, and
requirements.

   The Executive Director shall have the authority to make a
determination that an animal is a dangerous animal, as defined in
Section 7-12-020, and to order the owner to comply with any of the
measures set forth below for the protection of public health, safety and
welfare.

   (a)   Upon receipt of a complaint or other report of an animal bite,
attack, threatening behavior, or other reason to believe an animal may
be a dangerous animal, the Department shall evaluate the seriousness of
the complaint or report and, if the circumstances warrant, may conduct
an investigation of the facts. Where necessary, practicable, and readily
located, the investigation may include, but not be limited to,
interviewing the complainant, the human victim, if any, the victim
animal's owner, the biter animal's owner, any witnesses, and also
include observation of the animal and the scene, and any other relevant
information. The Department then shall make a written finding of whether
an animal is a dangerous animal as defined in Section 7-12-020 and the
basis for that finding. In addition, if during the course of the
investigation, the Department uncovers evidence of inhumane treatment of
any animal in violation of Section 7-12-080, the Department shall make a
written finding of the specific violation and forward the written
finding to the Executive Director. For purposes of this section, a
police report may support the Department's determination. When making
the determination, the Executive Director shall take into consideration
the totality of the circumstances, including the behavior of all of the
participants that led to the incident. The Executive Director shall
declare in writing whether the animal is a dangerous animal and issue
appropriate requirements as set forth in Section 7-12-050.

   (b)   Euthanasia.

      (1)   The Executive Director shall order the euthanasia of a
dangerous animal that has been declared dangerous because it has caused
death to a person.

      (2)   Where an animal is declared to be a dangerous animal because
it has been found to have caused the death of another domestic animal,
or severe injury to any person or domestic animal, the Executive
Director may order the euthanasia of the animal, where appropriate,
taking into consideration the severity and the circumstances of injury
or death.

   (c)   In all cases where an animal is declared to be a dangerous
animal and the animal is not euthanized, the Executive Director shall
order the owner to comply with the following requirements:

      (1)   While on the owner's property, the owner must securely
confine the dangerous animal indoors or within a securely enclosed and
locked outdoor enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children
and designed to prevent the animal from escaping; or both an indoor and
outdoor enclosure that meets the above criteria. If the owner chooses to
securely confine the dangerous animal within an outdoor enclosure, such
enclosure must be a minimum of six feet in height and must have secure
sides and top. If the enclosure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet deep. The
enclosure also must be humane and have an area which provides protection
for the animal from the elements and extreme temperatures. In addition
to the enclosure required by this subsection, the owner shall erect a
fence on the perimeter of that portion of the property where the
enclosure is located. The location and height of the fence shall be
approved by the Executive Director. The enclosure and fence shall be
erected within thirty days of the declaration that the animal is a
dangerous animal. An owner whose animal will be exclusively confined
indoors must submit to the Executive Director a sworn, notarized
declaration that the animal will be exclusively confined indoors.

      (2)   While off of the owner's property, a dangerous animal must
be muzzled securely to prevent the possibility of biting, restrained by
a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet in length, and under
the control of a responsible adult at all times. The muzzle must be made
in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or impair its
vision or respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or
animal.

      (3)   Within 24 hours of the declaration that the animal is a
dangerous animal, the owner must display, in a conspicuous manner, a
sign on the owner's premises warning that a dangerous animal is on the
premises by stating in capital letters:

"WARNING – DANGEROUS ANIMAL – KEEP AWAY."

If the owner lives in a free-standing residence or a townhome, the sign
must be visible and legible from the public way and from 50 feet away
from the special enclosure required pursuant to subsection (c)(1) above.
If the owner lives in an apartment or multi-unit dwelling and the animal
is kept solely within the dwelling, the sign must be placed on both the
front and back entries to the unit.

      (4)   Within ten business days of the declaration that the animal
is a dangerous animal, the owner, at the owner's expense, shall have an
identifying microchip installed under the animal's skin by a
veterinarian.

      (5)   Within ten business days of the declaration that the animal
is a dangerous animal, the animal shall be sterilized, at the owner's
expense.

      (6)   Within ten business days of the declaration that the animal
is a dangerous animal, the owner must procure and maintain in effect
liability insurance, including coverage of claims arising from the
conduct of the owner's animal, in an amount not less than $100,000.00
for each animal declared dangerous for bodily injury, personal injury
and property damage.

The insurance shall include a provision whereby the insurer notifies the
Executive Director not less than 30 days prior to cancellation or lapse
of coverage.

      In addition, the Executive Director may order the owner to comply
with any of the following requirements, in any combination:

      (7)   The owner must confine the dangerous animal indoors or
within a securely locked outdoor enclosure described above in subsection
(1) at all times and only allow the animal out under the conditions set
forth in subsection (2) when it is necessary to obtain veterinary care
for the animal, comply with a court order, or where an emergency is
declared by a government agency requiring evacuation of the owner.

      (8)   The owner and the animal must complete a course of animal
obedience training approved by the Executive Director.

   In the alternative to (1) – (8) above, the Executive Director may
order that the dangerous animal:

      (i)   at the owner's expense, have an identifying microchip
implanted under the animal's skin by a veterinarian; and

      (ii)   be permanently barred from the city limits. The owner shall
provide a statement, verified by affidavit, to the Executive Director
indicating the new location of the animal, and the name and address of
the person having custody of the animal.

   (d)   When an animal has been impounded pursuant to this section, the
Executive Director shall send written notice to the last known address
of the animal's owner by first class mail.

      (1)   When the animal has been impounded pursuant to subsection
(f) below, the notice shall: (i) be sent within 30 days after the first
day of impoundment; and (ii) advise the owner of the impoundment, the
investigation, and the fees due under Section 7-12-120 or other
applicable ordinance or rule.

      (2)   If the animal has been declared a dangerous animal by the
Executive Director, the notice shall describe the basis for such
declaration by specific behavior and date(s) of occurrence, setting
forth all applicable orders and requirements imposed, reason of such
declaration, and informing the owner of the right to appeal the
determination by filing a written request for a hearing within ten days
of service of the notice.

      (3)   Written notice shall be deemed served on the date the notice
is mailed.

      (4)   If there is a complainant or victim, and the Department has
contact information for that individual, the Department shall also send
the individual a copy of the declaration.

   (e)   If the owner requests a hearing, the Department of
Administrative Hearings shall appoint an administrative law officer who
shall hold a de novo hearing within 30 days of the request, at which all
interested parties may present testimony and any other relevant
evidence. The hearing shall be taped or recorded by other appropriate
means. If the administrative law officer upholds the Executive
Director's determination that the animal is dangerous, the owner shall
have 30 days to satisfy all requirements set out in subsection (c) and
the notice. In those cases where the Executive Director has ordered
euthanasia of the dangerous animal, that order shall not be carried out
until 36 days after issuance of the final order. If the owner files for
administrative review and presents notice of the complaint to the
Department within 35 days of the issuance of the final order, the final
order shall be stayed until resolution of such appeal.

   (f)   When a complaint has been made or a bite reported, and when the
circumstances of the bite incident suggest that an animal will be
declared a dangerous animal, the Executive Director or his designee is
authorized to either (1) impound and hold such animal, at the owner's
expense or (2) impose one or more of the requirements set forth in
subsection (c) above, pending the completion of the dangerous animal
investigation and final resolution of any appeals. Should an owner fail
to comply with requirements issued by the Executive Director under this
subsection (f)(2), the Executive Director shall impound and hold the
animal at the owner's expense. Where the animal has caused severe injury
or death to any person, the Executive Director or his designee shall
impound and hold such animal, at the owner's expense, pending the
investigation and final resolution of any appeals. Moreover, in no event
shall a dangerous animal be released to its owner before the owner
obtains a dangerous animal license pursuant to Section 7-12-052 or
before the Executive Director or his designee approves the enclosure
required by subsection (c)(1). The holding period and impoundment
procedures for animals of unknown ownership shall be governed by Section
7-12-060. Any animal impounded and held pursuant to this subparagraph
(f) shall receive shelter, food, water, sanitization of kennels, and
medical care to the extent the Department's resources and capacity for
care will permit during the holding period. Animals may also receive
in-kennel enrichment as the Department's partners may be able to
provide.

   (g)   Owners of guard dogs and owners of dogs which have been found
to be "vicious dogs" under state law shall comply with the requirements
of Section 7-12-050(c)(1) through (6) without the need for any
individualized declaration or the right to any hearing, except that, to
the extent an owner disputes the fact that the animal is used as a guard
dog the hearing procedure set forth in subsection (e) of this section
shall apply. The Department may promulgate rules that set forth the
conditions under which the provisions of subsection (c) of this section
shall not apply to guard dogs when the dogs are on assignment.

(Added Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24982;
Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56813; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 10-31-01, p. 71774, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p.
99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 6; Amend Coun.
J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. II, § 20; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755,
Art. XII, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 2-28-18, p. 65923, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
1-27-21, p. 26741, Art. II, § 9)

7-12-051 Dangerous animals – Violations.

   (a)   Any owner who fails to comply with any of the requirements of
Section 7-12-050, Section 7-12-052, or any additional orders of the
Executive Director as authorized by those sections shall be punished by
a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00, plus
impoundment of the animal. If the owner fails to make the animal
available for impoundment or fails to come into compliance with the
requirements or orders within 7 days after the impoundment of the
animal, the owner shall be incarcerated for a term not to exceed six
months and the animal shall become the property of the Department. In
addition to the penalties set forth above, the Executive Director may
order an owner who violates Section 7-12-050 to attend with the animal a
course of animal obedience training approved by the Executive Director.

   (b)   Any animal which has been declared a dangerous animal and which
(1) is seen outside and not confined within the enclosure required by
Section 7-12-050(c)(1), and not muzzled and under control as required by
Section 7-12-050(c)(2), or (2) thereafter attacks or injures a person or
domestic animal, shall be impounded by an animal control officer or a
police officer, at the owner's expense, and the Executive Director may
order the owner to comply with any of the alternatives set forth in
Section 7-12-050(c), including the euthanasia of the animal. If the
owner fails to make the animal available for impoundment or fails to
come into compliance with the requirements or orders within 7 days after
the impoundment of the animal, the owner shall be incarcerated for a
term not to exceed six months and the animal shall become the property
of the Department. The owner shall be entitled to notice and an
opportunity for a hearing in the same manner as provided in Section
7-12-050(d) and (e) above.

(Added Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17,
p. 61755, Art. XII, § 3)

7-12-052 Dangerous animals – Miscellaneous.

   (a)   Every owner of a dangerous animal shall allow inspection of the
enclosure described in Section 7-12-050 by the Executive Director or his
designee.

   (b)   All dangerous animals as defined in this chapter are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance; provided that they are lawful if
maintained in strict compliance with the requirements set out in Section
7-12-050(c).

   (c)   [Reserved.]

   (d)   When an animal has caused severe injury or death to any person,
but it is not found to be a dangerous animal on the grounds that the
attack was provoked, the Executive Director shall advise the owner to
comply with the safety measures set forth in Section 7-12-050(c) in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.

   (e)   In addition to any other license required under this chapter,
the owner of any animal declared dangerous shall obtain a dangerous
animal license within 10 days of the declaration that the animal is a
dangerous animal; except that this provision shall not apply to the
owner of any guard dog service that is licensed under Chapter 4-384 of
this code. The owner shall pay an annual license fee of $100 for the
privilege of owning the dangerous animal. The application for the
license shall be made to the Executive Director.

(Added Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 8; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17,
p. 61755, Art. XII, § 4)

7-12-060 Redemption of impounded animals.

   (a)   Subject to the exceptions provided in subsections (b), (c), and
(d), the Department, or any agency the Department may designate to take
possession of animals for the purposes of impounding, shall hold
impounded animals for a minimum of seven days, unless the owner redeems
the animal sooner, during which time reasonable means shall be used to
facilitate their return to the rightful owners. The owner of any animal
impounded in any animal control center may, at any time during visiting
hours at the animal control center, and before the sale or other
disposal as provided in this chapter, redeem such animal by paying the
required fees or charges and, in the case of an unlicensed animal, by
complying with the license requirements. The seven-day holding period
shall not apply to an animal relinquished by its owner to the Department
under owner signature authorizing the Department to make immediate
disposition of the animal at its discretion, nor shall any required
holding period apply to an animal received for impounding in obviously
critical physical condition or for which immediate euthanasia shall be
deemed proper for humane reasons by the Executive Director or the
Executive Director's designee.

   (b)   Any impounded animal of unknown ownership that remains
unredeemed after three days shall be the property of the Department. The
Executive Director may allow the adoption or transfer of any animal of
unknown ownership after three days of impoundment, or any other
disposition of the animal after five days of impoundment. In the event
the Executive Director determines that an animal of unknown ownership
suffers from severe behavioral issues, the Executive Director may allow
any disposition of the animal after three days impoundment. Wild animals
which are noxious by their very nature, such as wild rats and
undomesticated rodents, may be euthanized at once following an
examination for zoonotic diseases.

   (c)   The Executive Director may allow the immediate adoption, or
immediate transfer to an animal shelter or similar facility, of: (1) any
impounded cat of unknown ownership; and (2) any impounded litter of
puppies aged four months or younger of unknown ownership, as well as
their mother, if she is present. The Executive Director also may allow
the immediate transfer or other disposition of any impounded unweaned
neonate animal of unknown ownership.

   (d)   The Executive Director shall have the authority to adopt rules
necessary for the administration of this section.

(Prior code § 98-3.3; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend
Coun. J. 11-12-14, p. 96630, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901,
Art. I, § 9; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. XII, § 5)

7-12-065 Redemption of dogs and cats.

   (a)   Except as provided elsewhere in this section, any dog or cat
impounded under Sections 7-12-040(a), 7-12-080, or 7-12-290 shall, prior
to the animal’s return to its owner:

      (1)   have a microchip implanted if it does not already have one;

      (2)   have a confirmed current rabies vaccination; and

      (3)   if the dog or cat is capable of reproduction, be sterilized.

   (b)   An owner may receive the animal without compliance with
subsection (a)(1) or (3) if:

      (1)   The Executive Director determines that microchipping and/or
sterilization would endanger the life or health of the animal, or

      (2)   The owner contests microchipping and/or sterilization within
the stray hold period set forth in Section 7-12-060 by filing a written
request for a hearing.

   (c)   An owner who redeems an animal pursuant to subsection (b)(1)
shall, within thirty days of redeeming the animal, provide the
Department with either:

      (1)   proof that the owner had the animal microchipped and/or
sterilized; or

      (2)   a veterinarian’s certificate stating that the animal cannot
be sterilized without endangering the life or health of the animal.

   (d)   If the owner requests a hearing pursuant to subsection (b)(2),
the Department of Administrative Hearings shall appoint an
administrative law officer, who shall hold a hearing, at which all
interested parties may present testimony and any other relevant
evidence, within 15 days of the request. If the administrative law
officer upholds the Executive Director’s determination that the cat or
dog is subject to the requirements of subsection (a), then the owner
shall complete the ordered procedures and provide the Department with
the documentation required in subsection (c) within thirty-five days
after the administrative law officer’s order. If the owner appeals to
the circuit court during that time period, the order to sterilize and
implant a microchip in the animal shall be stayed until resolution of
such appeal.

(Added Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p.
99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 10; Amend Coun.
J. 4-18-18, p. 75057, § 2)

7-12-070 Facilities to be used for impoundments.

   For purposes of impoundment, the Executive Director shall utilize:
(i) an animal control center, (ii) a foster home, (iii) the facilities
of any humane society properly equipped and willing to impound animals,
or, (iv) if the animal shall be of a species that may be better or more
safely impounded elsewhere, the Executive Director may designate an
alternate facility that is properly equipped and willing to accept the
animal.

(Prior code § 98-3.4; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 11;
Amend Coun. J. 5-25-18, p. 77747, § 4)

7-12-080 Removal of neglected animal.

   (a)   Whenever the Executive Director shall determine: (1) that any
animal is kept within a building or upon any premises without food,
water, shelter, or proper care and attention for a period of time
sufficient within his judgment to cause undue discomfort or suffering,
and the owner cannot be located after reasonable search, or if the owner
shall be known to be absent due to injury, illness, incarceration,
eviction, or other involuntary circumstance; or (2) that any animal is
kept at a residence under such conditions that endanger the public
health, safety and welfare, or the safety and welfare of the animal, it
shall be the duty of the Executive Director to obtain the necessary
legal process to allow him or her to enter or to cause to have entered
such building or premises to take possession and remove such animal to
an animal control center or to a humane society or other appropriate
agency equipped, able and willing to accept the animal.

   (b)   The animal control center, humane society or other authorized
receiving agency shall exercise due caution for the welfare and
temporary safekeeping of any animal so removed, in conformance with
policies to be prescribed by the Department. After due notification to
the owner, or, if the owner cannot be located or contacted after
reasonable effort by the animal control center, humane society or other
authorized receiving agency, any animal so removed and unredeemed shall
become the property of the Department and disposed of under policies
prescribed by the Department.

(Prior code § 98-4; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 12)

7-12-090 Owner's responsibility where animal has bitten another animal
or person.

   (a)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of any
animal which has bitten any other domestic animal or person to:

      (1)   notify the Executive Director of such bite within 24 hours
of the bite;

      (2)   subject to subsection (b), confine such animal under the
observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days
beginning within 24 hours of the biting incident. If, however, a
licensed veterinarian is presented evidence that such animal has been
inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law prior to the
biting, such animal shall be confined on the premises of its owner and
in a manner which shall prohibit such animal from biting any other
animal or person for a period of ten days; except that, where the animal
bite has caused severe injury or death to a person, confinement on the
owner's premises shall not be allowed.

   (b)   After notification by the owner pursuant to subsection (a)(1),
the Executive Director may impound, at the owner's expense, any animal
that has bitten any other animal or person to make a dangerous animal
investigation pursuant to Section 7-12-050(f).

   (c)   In the event of severe injury or death to a person, the
Executive Director shall impound the animal, at the owner's expense, as
set forth above in Section 7-12-050(f). It further shall be the duty and
responsibility of the owner to have such animal examined by a licensed
veterinarian on the first and tenth day of impoundment or confinement or
as soon thereafter as possible; provided, that the impoundment or
confinement of the animal described above shall not be terminated until
examination by a veterinarian.

   (d)   If an animal is to be impounded by the Executive Director
pursuant to this section, the owner shall pay a $150.00 rabies
observation fee to cover the cost of housing, food, veterinary services
and any other service rendered to the animal. Prior to release of said
animal, vaccination and license certificates must be presented to the
Executive Director or the director's authorized representative.

   (e)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal that has
bitten any person to sell, euthanize, inoculate, or give away the animal
or to permit or allow the animal to be taken beyond the limits of the
city during the time period for rabies observation and a dangerous
animal investigation.

   (f)   The owner of any animal impounded pursuant to this section
shall pay all costs incurred by the Department for the housing, care and
treatment of the animal. Any person who violates any other provision of
this section shall be fined not less than $300.00 nor more than $500.00
for each offense, or may be incarcerated for a term not to exceed six
months, or both.. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. In addition to any fine or incarceration
that may be imposed by this section, if the owner fails to make the
animal available for impoundment, the animal shall become the property
of the Department.

(Prior code § 98-5; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J.
12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 3.26;
Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p.
37901, Art. I, § 13)

7-12-100 Excessive animal noise – Prohibited.

   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, controls, has
possession of or is charged with the responsibility for caring for any
dog or other animal to allow such animal to make excessive noise in a
manner that unnecessarily disturbs the comfort, quiet, peace or repose
of any other person in the vicinity, at any time of the day or night.
Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than $50.00
nor more than $250.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

   A citation for a violation of this section may be issued based on
either: (1) personal observation of a violation by any city officer or
employee charged with enforcement of this section; or (2) a complaint
alleging a violation of this section, signed and sworn to by residents
of three different addresses, and specifying the date and time of the
violation.

   For purposes of this section, the term "excessive noise" means any
continued, repeated or habitual barking, whining, crying, howling,
whimpering, crowing, or loud noise common to an animal's species that
exceeds ten consecutive minutes in duration or occurs intermittently for
a significant portion of the day or night, that is louder than average
conversational level at a distance of 100 feet or more.

   For purposes of this section, the term "any other person" means a
reasonable person with ordinary sensibilities.

(Added Coun. J. 10-7-09, p. 72725, § 1)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-1-04, p. 36205, § 1, repealed former §
7-12-100, which pertained to animals for medical research.

7-12-110 Transfer of City-owned animals.

   (a)   The Department shall designate, and the Executive Director
shall cause to have posted or published, the day or days of each week
and the hours when City-owned animals shall be offered: (i) to the
public for adoption; (ii) for foster care; or (iii) for transfer to a
humane society.

   (b)   Any City-owned dog or cat, as necessary, shall be sterilized,
vaccinated, and microchipped prior to transfer for adoption.

   (c)   The Executive Director shall promulgate rules regarding
qualifications for adoptive owners, foster homes, and humane societies
to receive animals transferred by the Department, including inoculation
and enforcement of neutering and spaying requirements for all dogs and
cats.

(Prior code § 98-7; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 14;
Amend Coun. J. 5-25-18, p. 77747, § 5)

7-12-115 Rabies and distemper vaccinations; spay/neuter clinics.

   (a)   The Department and the Executive Director may establish and
maintain one or more clinics for the administration of rabies and
distemper vaccinations to, the sterilization of, and the implantation of
microchips in cats and dogs owned by city residents.

   (b)   Persons who submit a dog or cat for any of the services
specified in this section shall complete an application form promulgated
by the Executive Director. The application shall include a consent form
certifying that the applicant is the owner of the animal or is otherwise
authorized to present the animal for the service. The consent form shall
contain a waiver of liability of the city, the Department and the
Executive Director, and any of their agents or employees, for any injury
or death of an animal resulting from the services provided under this
section, or other services provided incidental thereto.

   (c)   The Department shall impose and collect the following fees for
the services specified:

      (1)   Sterilization surgery.....$25.00

      (2)   Rabies vaccination.....$15.00

      (3)   Microchip implantation.....$15.00

      (4)   Distemper vaccination.....$7.00

   The fees shall be in addition to any applicable license fee.

   The Department may, no more than five days per month, waive the
sterilization surgery fee for residents in those areas having the
highest stray populations. Residents are eligible for the fee waiver
only if they present proof of residence within the designated area. The
Department shall annually promulgate rules setting forth the areas with
the highest stray populations.

   In addition, the Department may establish, impose and collect a
reasonable boarding fee upon an applicant who fails to pick up the
animal at the time specified by clinic personnel.

(Added Coun. J. 11-4-98, p. 80929; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, §
4.1; Amend Coun. J. 5-12-10, p. 91121, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p.
37901, Art. I, § 15)

7-12-120 Fees.

   The Department shall charge and collect the following fees and shall
attach such additional requirements as are stated for release of animals
from the animal control center:

   (a)   Redemption fee per animal.....$65.00

   (b)   Housing fee per animal, per day.....$8.00

   (c)   Adoption fee for:

      (1)   Dogs and cats.....$65.00
         Or higher bid price if auctioned

      (2)   All other animals.....$5.00 – $30.00
         Or higher bid price if auctioned

   (d)   Euthanasia fee - owner's request.....$10.00

   In addition to the redemption and housing fees, all mandatory
licensing fees shall be paid at the time of the redemption of the
animal.

   The Department shall promulgate regulations establishing the adoption
fees for animals, other than dogs and cats, pursuant to the requirements
of subsection (c)(2) of this section.

   The owner of an animal impounded four or more times in a 12-month
period shall not be entitled to obtain return of the animal until a
hearing is held by the City and the hearing officer concludes that the
owner can exercise responsible ownership and control of the animal. If
the owner requests a hearing, the Department of Administrative Hearings
shall appoint an administrative law officer who shall hold a hearing, at
which all interested parties may present testimony and any other
relevant evidence, within 15 days of the request. The hearing shall be
taped or recorded by other appropriate means. If the administrative law
officer concludes that the owner is entitled to return of the animal,
the animal shall be returned to the owner upon payment of all applicable
fees. If the administrative law officer concludes that the owner is not
entitled to return of the animal, the animal shall become the property
of the Department.

(Prior code § 98-7.1; Amend Coun. J. 11-30-88, p. 19542; Amend Coun. J.
11-10-94, p. 59125; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun.
J. 7-26-06, p. 81855, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, §
16)

7-12-130 Refund of spaying deposit – Exchange of animal – Department's
right to repossess.

   Any adopter of an animal from an animal control center may exchange
such animal for another of the same species and sex within 14 days from
date of adoption if said animal has been examined by a veterinarian or
by an authorized representative of the Executive Director and found to
be physically or otherwise defective, or unadaptable to the home of the
adopter, but no refund shall be made if exchange shall be declined by
the adopter.

   The Department shall have the right to repossess irrevocably without
refund or exchange privilege, any adopted animal if the owner is in
default as to licensing requirements or any other provision of this
chapter.

(Prior code § 98-7.2; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 17)

7-12-140 License required.

   (a)   It is the duty of the owner of each dog four months of age or
older to obtain from the city a dog license for the privilege of owning
such dog, unless such dog shall be temporarily within the possession of
a veterinary hospital, pet shop, animal care facility, or humane
society. The owner of each dog required to hold a license hereunder
shall, when the dog is on the public way, either: (i) ensure the license
is visible and securely attached to a collar, harness or similar device
worn by the dog, or (ii) upon request by an authorized city official,
make available the license for inspection. The license fee for each dog
license shall be as set forth in Section 7-12-170.

   (b)   Upon determining that an owner has violated subsection
7-12-140(a), an authorized city official shall issue a notice of
violation. The notice required by this subsection shall either be served
by hand upon the person in possession of the animal at the time the
violation is identified or sent by first class mail addressed to the
owner at the most recent address shown on county rabies vaccination
records.

   (c)   The penalty for any violation of subsection 7-12-140(a) shall
be no less than $30.00 and no greater than $200.00. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense to which a
separate fine shall apply.

   (d)   The provisions of Article I of Chapter 2-14 of the Code shall
apply to this section.

(Prior code § 98-8; Amend Coun. J. 12-12-01, p. 75777, § 4.2; Amend
Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109, §

7-12-150 License application forms.

   (a)   An application for a dog license shall be made to the City
Clerk on forms or in an electronic format as prescribed by the City
Clerk, and shall contain the owner's name, address, telephone number,
e-mail address, information sufficient to identify the dog, and any
other information as may be required by the City Clerk.

   As part of every dog license application, the owner shall attest to
the following information for each dog for which an application has been
submitted:

      (1)   that the dog has a current certificate of rabies inoculation
that complies with Section 7-12-200;

      (2)   the number of the rabies inoculation certificate or tag
referred to in subsection (a)(1) of this section, and the date of
expiration of the rabies inoculation the dog received;

      (3)   the age of the dog's owner; and

      (4)   whether the dog has been sterilized.

   (b)   The City Clerk shall keep on file, for two years from date of
issue, a copy, which may be an electronic copy, of each application or a
copy of each license so issued on the basis of application.

   (c)   Any person who knowingly makes a false statement of material
fact on any dog license application shall be subject to the provisions
of Section 1-21-010 of the Municipal Code.

(Prior code § 98-8.1; Amend Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2873, § 2; Amend Coun.
J. 12-12-07, p. 16793, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-08, p. 34890, § 2; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 19)

7-12-160 Rabies inoculation certificate.

   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk. Before
a license is issued, a certificate of inoculation against rabies for
each dog, issued by the county rabies control officer, or by his deputy,
or by a licensed veterinarian, shall be submitted to the City Clerk for
examination. No license shall be issued for any dog unless such
inoculation certificate bears a date within three years prior to the
date of application for license or such other interval as approved by
the Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois. Such certificate
shall be returned to the applicant after the current dog license number
has been stamped thereon. When applying for a dog license by mail, the
certificate of inoculation shall accompany the application. Said
certificate shall be returned at the time the license tag is mailed to
the applicant.

(Prior code § 98-8.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 5;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 20)

7-12-170 License fees.

   (a)   A dog license may be issued for either a one-year or three-year
period as limited by subsection (e) of this section. The fee shall be
paid at the time of the issuance of the license and shall be as follows:

 

 

except that owners 65 years of age or older shall be charged as follows:

 

 

   (b)   The fee for a replacement license shall be one- half of the
original fee, or $20.00, whichever is less.

   (c)   No fee shall be charged for:

      (1)   any service dog. For purposes of this subsection a "service
dog" means a dog that is individually trained to do work or perform
tasks for the benefit of a person with a disability, including a
physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental
disability; or

      (2)   any dog which is the property of any subdivision of local,
state or federal government.

   (d)   Each dog license issued after July 1, 2008 shall expire at the
end of the applicable one or three year period or on the expiration date
of the certificate of inoculation that is in effect at the time the dog
license is issued, whichever is earlier.

(Prior code § 98-8.3; Amend Coun. J. 12-12-01, p. 75777, § 4.3; Amend
Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81829, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2873, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2891, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-08, p. 34890,
§ 2; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 26724, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p.
12759, § 1)

7-12-180 Exemptions from license requirements.

   (a)   Section 7-12-140 shall not apply to dogs owned by or in the
charge or care of nonresidents traveling through the City of Chicago or
temporarily living therein; however, any person keeping or harboring any
dog for 15 consecutive days within the city shall be considered a
resident owner and shall comply with the licensing requirement.

   (b)   Section 7-12-140 shall not apply to any person who is properly
licensed under Chapter 4-384 of this Code to engage in the business of
permanent animal exhibition or properly permitted under Section 7-12-185
to operate a temporary animal exhibition.

(Prior code § 98-8.4; Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81829, § 3; Amend Coun.
J. 6-13-07, p. 2873, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2891, § 2; Amend
Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 153)

7-12-185 Temporary animal exhibitions – permit required.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, the term "temporary animal
exhibition" shall be defined as set forth in Section 4-384-010.

   (b)   No person shall operate a temporary animal exhibition without
first having obtained an animal exhibition permit.

   (c)   An application for an animal exhibition permit shall be made on
a form prescribed by the Executive Director, and shall be accompanied by
a non-refundable application fee as set forth in Section 4-5-010. The
application shall contain:

      (1)   The name and business address of the applicant and any other
associated information that the Executive Director may require,
including any disclosures pertaining to ownership or control of the
applicant;

      (2)   A description of the proposed exhibition, including
location, dates of operation, the species and numbers of animals
included, and any animal tricks, behaviors or other activities intended
as part of the exhibition;

      (3)   Proof of insurance with amounts and coverages set by the
Executive Director, following consultation with the City's risk manager;
and

      (4)   Such other information as the Executive Director may
reasonably require.

   (d)   Upon being satisfied that a permit application is complete and
meets the requirements of this section, and that the proposed exhibition
will not endanger the public or create an imminent hazard to the health
of the animals included in such exhibition, the Executive Director shall
issue the permit. The permit shall be valid only for the exhibition as
described on the application. If the Executive Director denies the
permit, the Executive Director shall inform the applicant in writing,
stating the reasons for the denial.

   (e)   (1)   Any person found to be operating a temporary animal
exhibition without the permit required by this section, or in violation
of the terms of a permit issued pursuant to this section, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for
each offense, or summary closure of the exhibition, or both a fine and
summary closure. A separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred
for each day of noncompliance.

      (2)   If the Executive Director determines that any violations are
limited in scope or egregiousness such that they can be corrected by the
permittee, the Executive Director may mandate that the permittee
complete corrective action by a date certain, or, if summary closure is
imposed, as a precondition to re- opening the exhibition. Provided,
however, that summary closure of a temporary animal exhibition shall
only be authorized if an inspection by the Department results in a
finding of an imminent hazard to the health of animals included in such
exhibition. Corrective action may be imposed in conjunction with a fine.

   (f)   (1)   Any applicant who believes that his application for a
permit is wrongfully denied, or any permittee whose exhibition has been
summarily closed pursuant to this section, may file an appeal with the
Department of Administrative Hearings within five business days of the
date of the notice of the Executive Director's denial or the closure. If
no appeal is filed within said five-day period, the Executive Director's
action shall be deemed final.

   Upon the filing of such appeal, the Department of Administrative
Hearings shall cause a hearing to be held within five business days and
based upon the evidence contained in the record of such hearing, either
affirm or reverse the decision of the Executive Director.

   Any final decision of the Department of Administrative Hearings shall
be subject to judicial review in accordance with applicable law.

      (2)   If under the circumstances there is not sufficient time to
file the appeal in accordance with the procedure set forth in this
subsection, the decision by the Executive Director shall be deemed a
final decision subject to judicial review in accordance with applicable
law.

(Added Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 154; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p.
37901, Art. I, § 21)

7-12-190 Citations.

   The Department, through its animal control officers, is authorized to
issue citations against the owner of any animal for violations of this
chapter.

(Prior code § 98-8.5; Amend Coun. J. 10-2-95, p. 8604; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 22)

7-12-200 Rabies vaccination required.

   Each owner of any dog, cat or ferret four months of age or older
shall have the animal vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian of the owner's choice. Evidence of vaccination shall
consist of a certificate signed and dated by the veterinarian. Type and
brand of vaccine used shall be as approved by the Department of
Agriculture of the State of Illinois. Vaccination shall be required
every three years or at such other interval as required by the
Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois.

   A current certificate of vaccination issued by a veterinarian
licensed to practice in any other jurisdiction establishing vaccination
with a vaccine approved by the Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois, may be accepted by the Executive Director, or for the issuance
of dog licenses, by the City Clerk.

(Prior code § 98-8.6; Amend Coun. J. 12-12-01, p. 75777, § 4.4; Amend
Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2873, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 23)

7-12-210 Equine animal – License required – Fee – Display – Exemptions.

   Each owner of a horse shall pay a license fee for the privilege of
keeping, stabling, or otherwise maintaining the horse within the city.

   The license fee shall be $25.00 for each year or any portion thereof
and shall be due on the first day of May of each year or at such later
date as the horse is acquired, and shall expire on the thirtieth day of
April.

   A tag shall be issued in evidence of payment of the license fee, and
shall be affixed to the rein or saddle whenever the horse is on a public
way. The Executive Director or an animal control officer may demand
proof of the license from the owner at any time or at any place when the
horse is within the city.

   This licensing requirement shall not apply to horses owned by, or in
the charge or care of nonresidents traveling through the City of Chicago
or temporarily living therein; however, any person keeping or harboring
any horse for 15 consecutive days within the city shall be considered a
resident owner and shall comply with all licensing requirements. A horse
which is the property of any subdivision of local, state or federal
government shall be issued a complimentary license.

(Prior code § 98-9; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun.
J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 24; Amend Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, §
9)

7-12-220 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-220,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – horse license required.

7-12-230 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-230,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – horse identification number –
violation – penalty.

7-12-240 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-240,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – right to demand proof of
license – exception.

7-12-250 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-250,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – access for inspection.

7-12-260 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-260,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – requirements for operation.

7-12-270 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-270,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – violation – penalty for
Sections 7-12-220 through 7-12-260.

7-12-280 Stables to be kept clean.

   Every person in possession or control of any stable or place where
any cows, horses, or other animals are kept, shall maintain it at all
times in a clean and wholesome condition. Additionally, no person shall
maintain any stable or barn for the housing or keeping of horses or
other animals during the period of each year from April 15th to November
15th unless said barn or stable is so constructed or equipped with
suitable screens as to prevent the ingress or egress of flies.

(Prior code § 98-10)

7-12-290 Cruelty to animals – Fines.

   No person shall do any of the following:

   (a)   Beat, torture, torment, bait, mutilate or cruelly kill any
animal, or cause or knowingly allow the same to be done;

   (b)   Fail to provide any animal in the person's care or custody with
proper food, water, air or sanitary shelter;

   (c)   Cruelly force into undue physical exertion or carry, keep,
drive, overload, overwork, or cause to be carried, driven, overloaded,
overworked, or kept, any animal in a cruel manner;

   (d)   Leave an animal unattended in a motor vehicle, trailer or other
enclosure for a period of time long enough to threaten its life or
health, including by subjecting the animal to inadequate air circulation
or by exposure to extreme heat or cold;

   (e)   Have, keep or harbor any animal which is infected with any
disease transmissible to other animals or man, or which is afflicted
with any painful disease or injury, including severe parasitism, unless
the animal is under the care of a veterinarian;

   (f)   Abandon any animal on any public way or in any place where it
may suffer or become a public charge;

   (g)   Stake out unattended, or leave unrestrained outside and
unattended any female dog in season; or

   (h)   Knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any animal except with
a written permit from the Illinois Department of Agriculture or the
Illinois Department of Natural Resources. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prevent the use of poisons, approved by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, for rodent or vermin control.

   (i)   In cases where the violation of this section creates a danger
to the public health and safety or to the health and welfare of an
animal, the Executive Director may cause the animal to be impounded
until such time that the conditions that caused the danger are
corrected. If the owner fails to correct the conditions within 7 days of
the impoundment of the animal, the animal shall become the property of
the Department. It shall be the duty of the Executive Director to obtain
the necessary legal process to allow him or her to enter or to cause to
have entered any building or premises to remove and impound such animal.
An animal control officer or police officer who has probable cause to
believe that subsection (d) of this section is being violated shall have
authority to enter a motor vehicle by any reasonable means under the
circumstances after making a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person responsible.

   (j)   Any person who shall violate any provision of subsections (a)
or (h) shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00
for each offense plus forfeiture of the animal; any person who shall
violate any other provision of this section shall be fined not less than
$300.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that such
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.

(Prior code § 98-11; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend
Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art.
I, § 29; Amend Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 72121, § 1)

7-12-300 Ban of unlicensed possession of animals for slaughter.

   No person shall own, keep or otherwise possess for their own food
purposes, or slaughter, any animal; provided, however, that this
prohibition shall not apply to edible byproducts, such as eggs or milk,
produced by an animal.

   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prohibit any properly
licensed establishment from slaughtering for food purposes any animals
which are specifically raised for food purposes.

   Agents of the Department, police officers and humane investigators of
any agency licensed by the City of Chicago and/or the Illinois
Department of Agriculture for the prevention of cruelty to animals shall
have the authority to confiscate any and all animals kept in violation
of this ordinance. Enforcement personnel shall have the authority to
enter any business premises during normal business hours where an animal
or animals described in this ordinance are being housed or kept, but
shall only enter domiciles or businesses during nonbusiness hours after
obtaining a proper search warrant or permission to enter from the
occupant or owner of such premises.

   Any person found to have been in violation of this section shall be
fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense.
When a person keeps, owns or slaughters more than one animal in
violation of this ordinance, the unlawful keeping, owning or
slaughtering of each animal will be considered a separate offense for
the purposes of this ordinance.

(Prior code § 98-11.1) (Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 11951, Art. X, § 9;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 30)

7-12-310 Removal of injured or diseased animal from public way.

   Any animal which is on any public way or within any public place and
which is severely injured or diseased, and for which care is not being
provided on the scene or any severely injured or diseased animal that
has strayed onto private premises, shall be removed, if possible, to the
care of an animal control center, to the nearest humane society, or to
the nearest veterinarian or veterinary hospital willing to accept them.
If immediate removal shall not be possible, such animal may be destroyed
by the most humane method available on the scene, unless the owner shall
come forward beforehand and assume responsibility for removal and care.

   Handling of any such case shall be the responsibility of the
Department or, in the absence of a representative of the Department, any
City of Chicago police officer, or any humane society representative
duly authorized by the society to act in its behalf.

(Prior code § 98-12; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 31)

7-12-320 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15498, § 1, repealed § 7-12-320,
which pertained to horse-drawn carriage – removal of horse from public
way.

7-12-330 Burial of dead animals.

   No person shall leave in or throw into any public way, public place
or public theater, or offensively expose or bury within the city, the
body or any part thereof of any dead or fatally sick or injured animal;
nor shall any person keep any dead animal in a place where it may be
dangerous to the life or detrimental to the health of any other animal
or person; provided, however, that the owner of any dead pet weighing
not more than 150 pounds may bury such animal on his premises; provided,
further, that not more than one such animal shall be buried upon any
half acre ground within two years, and such animal shall be placed at
least three feet below the surface of the soil surrounding and adjacent
to the grave.

(Prior code § 98-13)

7-12-340 Notice to Department for removal of dead animal.

   Every person having within his possession or control or upon any
premises owned or occupied by him or her any dead animal which that
person cannot, or does not intend to, bury or have buried or otherwise
lawfully disposed of shall immediately give notice to the Department and
the Department shall cause such animal to be removed and disposed of
consistent with sound environmental standards.

(Prior code § 98-14; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 33)

7-12-350 Dyeing baby chicks, other fowls or rabbits prohibited.

   No person shall bring or cause to have brought into the city, sell,
offer for sale, barter or display living baby chicks, ducklings,
goslings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been dyed, colored or
otherwise treated so as to impart to them an artificial color.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to display, sell, offer for sale,
barter or give away any chicks, ducklings, or goslings as pets, unless
the purchaser shall have proper brooder facilities. It shall be unlawful
for any person to give away such animals as novelties or prizes. Except
that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit legitimate
commerce in poultry for agricultural and food purposes.

(Prior code § 98-15)

7-12-360 Wild or nondomesticated animals.

   Each person who shall possess, keep or maintain any wild, or
nondomesticated animal, including any wild animal native to the State of
Illinois, shall upon demand by the Executive Director or his authorized
representative, furnish proof of compliance with such restrictions
and/or permit requirements as may be imposed by statutes of the State of
Illinois and/or federal law. The Executive Director or his authorized
representative shall be empowered to demand surrender of any animal
possessed, kept or maintained in the absence of proof of such compliance
or in violation of the city ordinance relative to zoning regulation and
to make whatever disposition of it as may be prescribed under Department
policies.

   It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any person to refuse to
surrender any animal kept in noncompliance.

(Prior code § 98-16; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 34)

7-12-365 Coyote management program.

   The executive director shall establish and maintain a coyote
management program and response guide based on research and best
practices, using public education, followed by humane hazing, as primary
management methods. The executive director shall professionally assess
the pertinent geography to determine how humane hazing can be applied in
specific instances. The executive director shall use lethal force only
if a coyote has approached a human and growled, bared teeth, or lunged,
or has injured or killed an escorted/on-leash pet, or has injured a
human.

   The executive director shall produce and provide a progress report to
the City Council Committee on Health and Human Relations on or before
October 15th of each year in the event of any new information regarding
coyote management efforts during that year.

(Added Coun. J. 7-20-16, p. 28722, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-20-19, p.
9510, Art. II, § 11)

7-12-370 Animal fights and contests prohibited.

   No person shall promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct, or carry on
any animal fight, or train any animal for the purpose of an animal fight
or any other type of contest, game or fight of a similar nature, nor any
simulated version of same that involves baiting or inciting an animal to
fight.

   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall
upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00
nor more than $5,000.00 for the first offense or second offense and
shall be punished as a misdemeanor for each subsequent offense by
incarceration in the county jail for a term not to exceed six months or
by both fine and imprisonment.

(Prior code § 98-17; Amend Coun. J. 7-31-90, p. 19875; Amend Coun. J.
12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1; Amend Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99838, § 1)

7-12-375 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109, § 4, repealed § 7-12-375,
which pertained to license requirement for animal care.

7-12-380 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-9-07, p. 104624, § 3, repealed § 7-12-380,
which pertained to snakehead fish.

7-12-385 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-9-07, p. 104624, § 3, repealed § 7-12-385,
which pertained to restrictions on live Asian carp.

7-12-387 Restrictions on pigeons.

   (a)   For purposes of this section only the following definition
applies:

   "Pigeon" means any live bird of the Family Columbidae.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to import, sell, own, keep
or otherwise possess any live pigeon within any area designated as a
residence district under the Chicago Zoning Ordinance. Nothing in this
subsection prohibits any person from transporting a live pigeon through
a residential district, if the pigeon is caged during transport and not
released in a residential district.

   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain
any coop or cote that is, or may be used for the storage, maintenance or
sheltering of any live pigeon within any area designated as a residence
district under the Chicago Zoning Ordinance.

   (d)   The provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall
not apply to the keeping of pigeons as part of an exhibit at either
Lincoln Park Zoo or the zoo at Indian Boundary Park.

   (e)   Violation of any portion of this section shall constitute a
public nuisance, which may be abated pursuant to the procedures
described in section 7-28-010. In addition to any fine or penalty, an
amount equal to three times the cost or expense incurred by the city in
abating a nuisance may be recovered in an appropriate action instituted
by the corporation counsel.

   (f)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00 or may be
incarcerated for a period not to exceed six months, or both. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

   (g)   [Reserved.]

(Added Coun. J. 9-4-03, p. 6975, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-5-04, p. 22691, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 5-26-04, p. 24838, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-3-04, p.
35125, § 1)

7-12-390 Transfer of animals – Records.

   The Department may require persons who sell, transfer ownership of,
give away, or otherwise dispose of animals, or of specified species of
animals, to maintain records of such transactions, including information
descriptive of the animals and identity and location of the recipients.
The Department shall prescribe the length of time such records shall be
kept on file by the preparer and shall be permitted access to the
records upon demand.

(Added Coun. J. 6-13-07, p. 2873, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p.
37901, Art. I, § 35)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-16-97, p. 42591 § 3, amended and redesignated
former § 7-12-390 as § 4-5-010(4a).

7-12-395 Enforcement.

   The Executive Director, or the Executive Director's designees, and
the Department of Police are authorized to take action necessary for the
effective enforcement of this chapter, including the issuance of
citations.

(Added Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81829, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109,
§ 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art. I, § 36)

7-12-400 Rules and regulations and inspections.

   The Department shall have the authority to establish and enforce
rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining to the
administration, implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.

   The Department may conduct, or cause to be conducted by an animal
control officer or authorized representative, such inspections as are
necessary to insure compliance with all applicable ordinances, statutes,
and laws of local, state and federal governments and compliance with
Department rules.

(Prior code § 98-18.2; Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81829, § 3; Amend
Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art.
I, § 37)

7-12-410 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98109, § 4, repealed § 7-12-410,
which pertained to license revocation.

7-12-420 Removal of excrement.

   No person shall appear with a pet upon the public ways or within
public places or upon the property of another, absent that person's
consent, without some means for the removal of excrement; nor shall any
person fail to remove any excrement deposited by such pet. This section
shall not apply to a blind person while walking his or her guide dog.

   Any person found to have been in violation of this section shall be
fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 98-19; Amend Coun. J. 5-14-97, p. 44296)

7-12-430 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than
$50.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 98-20; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 4.1)

CHAPTER 7-16
BIRTHS AND DEATHS

7-16-010   Reserved.

7-16-020   Reserved.

7-16-030   Reserved.

7-16-040   Reserved.

Article I. Abandoned Newborn Infant Protection

7-16-041   Signs.

Article II. Care and Disposition of Dead Human Bodies

7-16-050   Discovery.

7-16-060   Funeral establishment as a public morgue.

7-16-070   Reserved.

7-16-080   Reserved.

7-16-090   Reserved.

7-16-100   Burial and cremation permits.

7-16-110   Reserved.

7-16-120   Reserved.

7-16-130   Reserved.

7-16-140   Establishment or enlargement of cemetery.

7-16-150   Burial within city.

7-16-160   Reserved.

7-16-170   Reserved.

7-16-180   Reserved.

Article III. Violation of Chapter Provisions

7-16-190   Violation – Penalty.

7-16-010 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to reports of births.

7-16-020 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-16-020,
which pertained to report of sore eyes at birth.

7-16-030 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to reports of deaths.

7-16-040 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to certified copies of birth and
death reports.

ARTICLE I. ABANDONED NEWBORN INFANT PROTECTION* (7-16-041 et seq.)

* Editor's note – Formerly Article I-A. Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art.
11, § 1, redesignated the article as Article I.

7-16-041 Signs.

   Each facility required to comply with the Illinois Abandoned Newborn
Protection Act, including hospitals, fire stations, emergency medical
facilities and police stations, shall post a sign, issued by the
department of public health and uniform in size and appearance,
informing persons that a newborn infant may be relinquished at that
facility in accordance with the Act. Such signs shall be located in a
conspicuous place on the outside of such establishment.

(Added Coun. J. 6-8-05, p. 50963, § 1)

ARTICLE II. CARE AND DISPOSITION OF DEAD HUMAN BODIES (7-16-050 et seq.)

7-16-050 Discovery.

   Any person who discovers the body of a dead human being, or any part
thereof, shall immediately communicate to the medical examiner of the
county the fact of such discovery, the place where and time when the
same was discovered, where the same is or may be found, and any facts
known by which the said body may be identified, or the cause of death
ascertained.

(Prior code § 93-5; Amend Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 4)

7-16-060 Funeral establishment as a public morgue.

   No funeral director shall allow any establishment used, operated, or
maintained by him in the funeral directing business to be used as a
public morgue. If any dead human body is brought to any establishment,
and if arrangements are not made for the burial or cremation of such
body within 100 hours from and after the hour of death, the body shall
be taken by the funeral director to the county morgue, or placed by him
in one of the cemetery receiving vaults.

(Prior code § 93-6)

7-16-070 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-16-070,
which pertained to public exhibition prohibited.

7-16-080 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-16-080,
which pertained to exposure prohibited.

7-16-090 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-16-090,
which pertained to removal in public conveyance.

7-16-100 Burial and cremation permits.

   The Illinois Vital Records Act, as well as all rules and regulations
promulgated and amended from time to time by the Illinois Department of
Public Health under authority of that Act, governs as to death
certificates and permits to transport, bury, entomb, disinter and
dispose of dead bodies.

(Prior code § 93-10; Amend Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 4)

7-16-110 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 4, repealed § 7-16-110,
which pertained to recall of permits.

7-16-120 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to disinterred or decomposed bodies
brought into the city.

7-16-130 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to reports of cemetery
superintendents.

7-16-140 Establishment or enlargement of cemetery.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, enlarge, or alter
the boundaries of any cemetery within the city, or within one mile
thereof, unless authorized by an ordinance of the city council.

(Prior code § 93-14)

7-16-150 Burial within city.

   It shall be unlawful to inter or bury any dead human body or part
thereof in any place within the city other than a duly established
cemetery.

(Prior code § 93-15)

7-16-160 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 4, repealed § 7-16-160,
which pertained to burial of contagious-diseased dead.

7-16-170 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 4, repealed § 7-16-170,
which pertained to coffins for contagious-diseased dead.

7-16-180 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-2-09, p. 78837, Art. 11, § 2, repealed
former § 7-16-010, which pertained to funerals for the contagious-
diseased dead.

ARTICLE III. VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS (7-16-190 et seq.)

7-16-190 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person who violates, or who resists the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor
more than $1,000.00 for each offense, and a separate and distinct
offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each and every day on
which any such person shall be guilty of such violation.

(Prior code § 93-19)

CHAPTER 7-20
CONTAGIOUS AND EPIDEMIC DISEASES

7-20-010   Contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease defined.

7-20-020   Report of contagious or epidemic disease.

7-20-030   Change of physician in venereal disease treatment.

7-20-040   Information to venereally diseased person.

7-20-050   Reserved.

7-20-060   Report of sick or neglected person.

7-20-070   Reserved.

7-20-080   Reserved.

7-20-090   Reserved.

7-20-100   Reserved.

7-20-110   Towels in public lavatory.

7-20-120   Use of common drinking cup.

7-20-121   Senior buildings – Procedure during public health emergency.

7-20-130   Violation – Penalty.

7-20-010 Contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease defined.

   "Contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease" means any of the
following: cholera, yellow fever, diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhus,
typhoid fever, small pox, varioloid, puerperal fever, membranous croup,
measles, whooping cough, tuberculosis, influenza, pneumonia,
cerebrospinal fever, septic sore throat, syphilis, gonorrhea, chancroid,
or any grades of these diseases, and any other disease designated by the
Commissioner of Public Health as contagious, epidemic, or communicable.

(Prior code § 94-1; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 1)

7-20-020 Report of contagious or epidemic disease.

   Any physician or any manager, superintendent, or other person in
charge or control of any public or private institution, hotel,
boardinghouse, lodging house, hospital, or dispensary, or any other
person who shall discover, prescribe for, treat, care for, attend, or
learn of any person within the city or upon a vessel in the harbor
having, or suspected of having, a contagious, epidemic, or communicable
disease, excepting syphilis, gonorrhea, and chancroid, within 24 hours
after first discovering or learning of the existence or suspected
existence of the disease, shall report the facts in writing to the
Department of Public Health, giving the name, if known, and the place of
residence or the location of said person having, or suspected of having,
the disease, and the character and state of the disease.

   Any such person shall report syphilis, gonorrhea, and chancroid to
the Department of Public Health on a card supplied by the Department of
Public Health, which card shall state the age, sex, color, marital
condition, and occupation of the diseased person, the nature and
previous duration of the disease, the probable origin, and whether the
diseased person has been given a circular of information and advice,
furnished by the board of health, concerning venereal diseases. Said
card shall be mailed to the Department of Public Health within three
days after the discovery of the disease. Except as hereinafter provided,
the name and address of a person having syphilis, gonorrhea, or
chancroid shall not be reported to the Department of Public Health. All
information and reports concerning persons having syphilis, gonorrhea,
or chancroid shall be confidential and shall be inaccessible to the
public except in so far as publicity may attend the performance of the
duty imposed upon the Department of Public Health to protect other
persons from infection.

(Prior code § 94-2; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 2)

7-20-030 Change of physician in venereal disease treatment.

   When a person applies to a physician or other person for treatment of
a venereal disease, it shall be the duty of the physician or person
consulted to inquire of, and ascertain from the person seeking treatment
whether such person has theretofore consulted with, or been treated by,
any other physicians or persons, and if so to ascertain the name and
address of the physician or person last theretofore consulted. It shall
be the duty of the applicant for treatment to furnish this information,
and a refusal to do so, or falsification of the name and address of such
physician or person consulted, shall be deemed a violation of the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the physician or
person consulted, where the applicant has theretofore received
treatment, to notify immediately by mail the physician or person last
theretofore treating such applicant of the change of adviser, such
notification to be made upon a form furnished for that purpose by the
Department of Public Health. Should the physician or person previously
consulted fail to receive such notice within ten days after the last
appearance of such venereally diseased person it shall be the duty of
such physician to report to the Department of Public Health the name and
address of such venereally diseased person.

(Prior code § 94-3; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 3)

7-20-040 Information to venereally diseased person.

   It shall be the duty of every physician or other person who treats a
person infected with syphilis, gonorrhea, or chancroid to give to such
person at the first examination a circular of information and advice
furnished by the Department of Public Health concerning venereal
diseases and a copy of those sections of this chapter dealing with
venereal disease, and to report thereafter to the Department of Public
Health that such diseased person has received the two documents herein
specified.

(Prior code § 94-4; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 4)

7-20-050 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 5, repealed § 7-20-050,
which pertained to parents of venereally diseased minors.

7-20-060 Report of sick or neglected person.

   Any person who has reason to regard any individual in the City or
upon any vessel in the harbor as neglected or not properly cared for,
and every physician who hears of any such sick person and has reason to
believe such person requires the attention of the Department of Public
Health shall at once report the facts to the Department of Public Health
regarding the disease, condition, dwelling place, and position of such
sick person.

(Prior code § 94-6; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 5)

7-20-070 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 5, repealed § 7-20-070,
which pertained to sale or distribution of antitoxin.

7-20-080 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 5, repealed § 7-20-080,
which pertained to removal or disposal of diseased persons.

7-20-090 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 5, repealed § 7-20-090,
which pertained to removal of articles exposed to infection.

7-20-100 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-24-06, p. 76974, § 5, repealed § 7-20-100,
which pertained to taking articles to or from premises where death
occurred.

7-20-110 Towels in public lavatory.

   No person owning, in charge of, or in control of, any public lavatory
or washroom shall maintain in or about such lavatory or washroom any
towel for common use. The term "common use" as used in this section
shall be construed to mean for use by more than one person.

(Prior code § 94-11)

7-20-120 Use of common drinking cup.

   It shall be unlawful to keep, offer, or display for use any common
drinking cup, glass, or similar receptacle in any building or place open
to the public, or in any lodginghouse or boardinghouse, factory, office,
store, or private school.

(Prior code § 94-12)

7-20-121 Senior buildings – Procedure during public health emergency.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:

      (1)   "Senior building" means a residential rental building that
contains 24 or more dwelling units designated for tenants age 55 and
older.

      (2)   "Wellness checks" means contact to check on the well-being
of a resident of age 55 or older by another individual, done by
telephone, video conference, or in-person.

   (b)   If the Governor, County President, or Mayor declares that a
public health emergency exists within the City by a disaster declaration
or otherwise, the owner or manager of a senior building shall require
the following throughout the duration of such public health emergency:

      (1)   The owner or manager of a senior building shall:

         (A)   have a plan for wellness checks that includes:

            (i)   that well-being checks are conducted on all residents
at regular intervals, but in no event less frequently than twice weekly;

            (ii)   have a plan for a follow-up home visit if a wellness
check call is not answered;

            (iii)   allow for residents to elect to not be included in
the wellness check plan.

         (B)   require building staff to assist residents with food and
medication delivery within the senior building whenever necessary;

         (C)   when the public health emergency is the result of a
contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease:

            (i)   restrict access to the building to building staff,
people expressly authorized by residents to enter the building, and
people who service the building or people within the building;

            (ii)   restrict or prohibit gatherings at the building in
accordance with the public health orders or guidelines issued by a
governmental body whose jurisdiction includes the senior building.

      (2)   The owner or manager of a senior building shall post and
distribute information:

         (A)   from the federal Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the Illinois Department of Public Health, and the Chicago
Department of Public Health regarding orders or guidelines for best
practices and behavior to internally manage the public health emergency,
including changes to building operations and tenant behavior as a result
of the orders or guidelines;

         (B)   informing residents about programs which may assist them
with wellness checks, food and medication delivery, and meals; and

         (C)   informing residents about the existence of the Senior
Services Division of the Chicago Department of Family and Support
Services.

      (3)   The owner or manager of a senior building shall require its
employees and contractors that work at senior buildings to follow
applicable governmental health orders, rules, and guidelines issued to
address the public health emergency.

         (A)   Where those orders, rules, and guidelines require the use
of protective equipment, the owner or manager of the senior building
shall provide the equipment, and training on the use of the equipment,
to their employees and any contractor required to be at the senior
building for more than fifteen minutes.

         (B)   When the public health emergency is the result of a
contagious, epidemic, or communicable disease, the owner or manager of a
senior building shall, using products approved by a public health
agency, (i) provide hand sanitizer or hand washing facilities and (ii)
implement a cleaning regimen to ensure that high-contact surfaces are
cleaned and disinfected at least three times daily.

      (4)   Any communication, whether spoken, written, or otherwise,
between the owner, manager, or staff of a senior building and its
residents, individually or collectively, shall be in the primary
language of each individual resident. When requested by a resident,
communications shall be provided in an alternative accessible format,
such as large font or electronically.

      (5)   Service levels necessary for compliance with all applicable
laws, including the Residential Landlord and Tenant Ordinance, building
code, and other statutory requirements necessary for the safety and
well-being of residents within the building shall not be reduced.

   (c)   Beginning on the date of issuance of a declaration of disaster
or declaration of local disaster related to a public health emergency,
as applicable, and continuing throughout the duration of such public
health emergency, the manager of a senior building shall keep and
maintain on file the following records: (i) a list of the dates and
times of all resident well-being checks required by subsection (b)(1)(A)
of this section and the signature of the individual who performed the
well-being check, and (ii) a list of the dates and times of all common
area cleanings. The records required under this subsection (c) shall be
maintained by the senior building manager for a period of at least two
years after the date of entry of such record. Upon request by any
authorized City official, the senior building manager shall make such
records immediately available for inspection by such authorized City
official.

   (d)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Any owner or
manager of a senior building shall be jointly and severally liable for
any violation of this section. In addition to any fine or penalty
imposed by this section, (i) the Corporation Counsel may seek an
injunction or other equitable relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction to stop any violation of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 7-22-20, p. 18924, § 1)

7-20-130 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person that shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is provided, or that shall resist or cause
resistance to be made against the entry of any officer of the Department
of Public Health to any place described in this chapter which such
officer shall desire to make entry into for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this chapter, or that shall refuse or fail to comply
with any order or rule made by the Commissioner of Public Health and
necessary for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this
chapter, and any principal or person managing or in control of any
public or private school, that shall in any way attempt to prevent any
officer of the Department of Public Health from exercising the power
conferred upon him by this chapter, shall be fined not less than $10.00
nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 94-13; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 6)

CHAPTER 7-22
CONCUSSION INJURIES IN STUDENT ATHLETES IN CHICAGO SCHOOLS

7-22-010   Purpose.

7-22-020   Removal from contests.

7-22-030   Evaluation for return.

7-22-040   Violation.

7-22-010 Purpose.

   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any elementary, middle
or secondary school in the City of Chicago, public or private, which
sponsors athletic activities for its students, and is exempt from City
water or sewer charges.

(Added Coun. J. 1-13-11, p. 111298, § 1; Amend Coun, J, 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. VIII, § 3)

7-22-020 Removal from contests.

   A student athlete who exhibits signs, symptoms, or behaviors
consistent with a concussion, including loss of consciousness, headache,
dizziness, confusion, problems with immediate recall, disorientation as
to time, place or person, fatigue, blurred vision, or balance problems,
shall be immediately removed from the contest. If no health care
professionals are immediately available and an injured student athlete
has any of the described signs, symptoms, or behaviors, he or she shall
be promptly taken to a facility for appropriate medical care. For
purposes of this Chapter, "health care professionals" shall be defined
as "physicians licensed to practice medicine in all its branches in
Illinois and certified athletic trainers".

(Added Coun. J. 1-13-11, p. 111298, § 1)

7-22-030 Evaluation for return.

   A student athlete who has been removed from play may not return to
play until the athlete is evaluated by a health care professional
trained in the evaluation and management of concussion and receives
written medical authorization to return to play from such health care
professional.

(Added Coun. J. 1-13-11, p. 111298, § 1)

7-22-040 Violation.

   Upon proof of a violation of Section 7-22-020 or 7-22-030 by any
school exempted from City water or sewer charges, through its
responsible agents, including coaches, athletic directors, or any other
similar personnel, such exemption shall be revoked, and such school
shall become liable for all such charges from and after the date of
injury, or the return of the student to play without written
authorization by a health care professional.

(Added Coun. J. 1-13-11, p. 111298, § 1)

CHAPTER 7-24
DRUGS AND NARCOTICS

7-24-001   Definitions.

Article I. Distribution of Drugs and Medicines

7-24-010   Reserved.

7-24-020   Reserved.

7-24-030   Sample packages of medicines.

7-24-040   Reserved.

7-24-050   Reserved.

7-24-060   Reserved.

7-24-070   Bichloride of mercury.

7-24-080   Inhaling or drinking certain substances.

7-24-085   Failure to comply with the Methamphetamine Manufacturing
Chemical Retail Sale Control Act.

7-24-090   Sale of certain substances.

Article II. Drug Paraphernalia

7-24-091   Possession or delivery.

7-24-092   Manufacture.

7-24-093   Accomplice liability.

7-24-094   Delivery to persons under 18 years of age on school grounds.

7-24-095   License revocation.

7-24-096   Seizure and forfeiture.

7-24-097   Severability.

Article II-A. Controlled Substances

7-24-098   Establishments unlawfully used for controlled substances.

7-24-099   Prohibited possession or use of cannabis.

Article III. Carbolic Acid

7-24-100   Prescription required.

7-24-110   Inspection of prescriptions.

7-24-120   Fraudulent prescriptions.

7-24-130   False statements in prescriptions.

7-24-140   Crude carbolic acid mixtures and wholesale.

Article IV. Wood Alcohol

7-24-150   Sales register.

7-24-160   Sale regulated.

7-24-170   Label and warning.

Article V. Tobacco

7-24-190   Collection of cigar and cigarette stumps.

7-24-200   Purchase of cigar and cigarette stumps.

7-24-210   Manufacture from cigar and cigarette stumps.

Article VI. Office of Local Drug Control Policy

7-24-220   Created.

7-24-221   Director and deputy directors – Appointment – Term.

7-24-222   Director – Duties.

7-24-223   Technical and clerical assistants.

7-24-224   Donations.

Article VII. Use of Motor Vehicles

7-24-225   Unlawful drugs in motor vehicle – Impoundment.

7-24-226   Driving while intoxicated – Impoundment.

7-24-228   Burned motor vehicle report to fire commissioner.

Article VIII. Violation of Chapter Provisions

7-24-230   Violation – Penalty.

7-24-001 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter:

   "Cannabis Control Act" means the Cannabis Control Act, codified at
720 ILCS 550/1, et seq., or its successor act.

   "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act" means the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, codified at 410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq., or its successor act.

   "Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act" means the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, codified at 410 ILCS
130/1, et seq., or its successor act.

   "Illinois Controlled Substances Act" means the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, codified at 720 ILCS 570/100, et seq., or its successor
act.

   "Illinois Vehicle Code" means the Illinois Vehicle Code, codified at
625 ILCS 5/1-100, et seq., or its successor act.

   "Smoke Free Illinois Act" means the Smoke Free Illinois Act, codified
at 410 ILCS 82/1, et seq., or its successor act.

(Added Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 10)

ARTICLE I. DISTRIBUTION OF DRUGS AND MEDICINES (7-24-010 et seq.)

7-24-010 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68139, § 3, repealed § 7-24-010,
which pertained to poisonous medicines or decoctions.

7-24-020 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68139, § 3, repealed § 7-24-020,
which pertained to fraudulent prescriptions.

7-24-030 Sample packages of medicines.

   No person shall be permitted to give away, deposit, or otherwise
distribute any sample package, parcel, box or other quantity of any
nostrum, proprietary medicine, or other material of an alleged medicinal
character or purporting to be a curative agency, by means of depositing
or leaving the same in any hallway, private area, or yard, or on any
doorstep or in any place in public way in the city.

(Prior code § 97-3)

7-24-040 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68139, § 3, repealed § 7-24-040,
which pertained to habit-forming drugs.

7-24-050 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68139, § 3, repealed § 7-24-050,
which pertained to distribution to addicted persons.

7-24-060 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68139, § 3, repealed § 7-24-060,
which pertained to opium smoking rooms.

7-24-070 Bichloride of mercury.

   It shall be unlawful for any apothecary, druggist, or pharmacist, or
any employee of the same, or any other person to give away, sell, or
offer or expose for sale at retail in the city any bichloride of
mercury, otherwise known as corrosive sublimate, in the dry form, except
in colored tablets enclosed in a sealed container of glass. Said glass
container shall be conspicuously labeled with the word "poison" in red
letters. Each tablet in said container shall also be individually
wrapped and the wrapper shall have conspicuously placed thereon the word
"poison" in plain letters.

(Prior code § 97-7)

7-24-080 Inhaling or drinking certain substances.

   No person shall inhale, breathe or drink any compound liquid or
chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene,
ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichloroethylene, isopropanol,
methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, or any
other substance for the purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication,
elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any manner
change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or mental processes. For
the purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall be
deemed to be an intoxicated condition; provided, however, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to:

   a.   Any person who inhales, breathes, or drinks such material or
substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any doctor,
physician, surgeon, dentist, or podiatrist authorized to so direct or
prescribe.

   b.   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise in any
manner uses any narcotic, dangerous drug, or other material or substance
or combination thereof, which material or substance or combination
thereof is defined by, and the use of which is prohibited or regulated
by, any law of the State of Illinois. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more
than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 97-7.1)

7-24-085 Failure to comply with the Methamphetamine Manufacturing
Chemical Retail Sale Control Act.

   It shall be unlawful for any pharmacy and/or retail establishment who
carries on or manages a business or occupation within the City of
Chicago to fail to comply with Illinois Public Act 093-1008, which
imposes stricter controls on the display and sale of cold and sinus
products.

   Any pharmacy and/or retail establishment which holds a City of
Chicago business license and fails to comply with Illinois Public Act
093-1008, may be subject to the revocation of their business license for
subsequent violations and fines up to $500.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 11-30-05, p. 60745, § 2)

7-24-090 Sale of certain substances.

   No person shall knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or give
away to any person under 17 years of age, unless upon the written order
of parent or guardian, any substances containing any of the following
volatile solvents, where the seller, offerer or deliverer knows or has
reason to believe that the substance will be used for the purpose of
inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis,
irrational behavior, or in any manner change, distort or disturb the
audio, visual or mental processes:

   Toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate,
methyl ethyl ketone, trichloroethane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl
ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, or any other substance
which will induce symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness,
paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any manner change, distort or
disturb the audio, visual or mental processes.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 97-7.2)

ARTICLE II. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA* (7-24-091 et seq.)

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327, renumbered Articles II – VI
as Articles III – VIII to accommodate inclusion of §§ 7-24-091 –
7-24-097, as Art. II.

7-24-091 Possession or delivery.

   1.   Except as authorized by law, any person who delivers, furnishes,
transfers, or possesses with intent to deliver, furnish or transfer,
drug paraphernalia, as defined in Section 720 ILCS 600/2, subparagraph
(d)(5) of the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, and including glass tubing
designed and utilized for the ingestion of crack or cocaine, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that such drug
paraphernalia or glass tubing will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, sow, harvest, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare,
test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act,
codified at 720 ILCS 570/100, et seq., shall be fined $2,000.00, or
punished by imprisonment for a period of six months, or punished by both
such fine and imprisonment.

   2.   Except as authorized by law, any person who possesses
self-sealing plastic bags under two inches in either height or width,
knowing that such items will be or are being used to package for
transfer, delivery and/or storage of a controlled substance in violation
of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, codified at 720 ILCS 570/100,
et seq., shall be fined up to $1,500 depending on the quantity of such
items in their possession.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327; Amend Coun. J. 11-5-08, p. 43597, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 3-18-09, p. 56051; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, §
155; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 141)

7-24-092 Manufacture.

   Except as authorized by law, any person who manufactures, with intent
to deliver, furnish, or transfer drug paraphernalia knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound,
convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store,
contain, conceal, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body cocaine, cocaine base, heroin, phencyclidine, or methamphetamine in
violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act shall be fined
$1,000.00, or punished by imprisonment for a period of six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

7-24-093 Accomplice liability.

   Except as authorized by law, any person who provides another person
with drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that the second person will plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal,
ingest or otherwise introduce into another human body any controlled
substances in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, shall
be held as an accomplice to the violation by the second person and shall
be fined $1,000, or punished by imprisonment for a period of six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

7-24-094 Delivery to persons under 18 years of age on school grounds.

   Except as authorized by law, any person, 18 years of age or over,
who, upon the grounds of a public or private elementary, vocational,
junior high, or high school, possesses a hypodermic needle with the
intent to deliver, furnish or transfer the hypodermic needle, knowing,
or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be
used by a person under 18 years of age to inject into the human body any
controlled substance in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances
Act, shall be fined $2,000.00 or punished by imprisonment for a period
of six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

7-24-095 License revocation.

   The violation, or the causing or permitting of a violation, of
Section 7-24-091, 7-24-092, 7-24-093 or 7-24-094 by a holder of a
business or liquor license issued by the City of Chicago, and in the
course of the licensee's business shall be grounds for the revocation of
such license.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

7-24-096 Seizure and forfeiture.

   All drug paraphernalia defined in Section 720 ILCS 600/2,
subparagraph (5), and including glass tubing utilized for the ingestion
of cocaine or crack cocaine, is subject to forfeiture and may be seized
by any peace officer. The seizure and forfeiture shall be made in
accordance with rules issued by the superintendent of police or his
designee.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

7-24-097 Severability.

   If any provisions of Sections 7-24-091 through 7-24-097 or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of said
sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application and to this end the provisions of these sections are
severable.

(Added Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 3327)

ARTICLE II-A. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (7-24-098 et seq.)

7-24-098 Establishments unlawfully used for controlled substances.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful to:

      (1)   knowingly open or maintain any place for the purpose of
unlawful manufacturing, storing, distributing or using any controlled
substance; or

      (2)   manage or control any building, room or enclosure, either as
an owner, lessee, manager, agent, employee or mortgagee, and knowingly
and intentionally rent, lease or make available for use, with or without
compensation, the building, room or enclosure for the purpose of
unlawfully manufacturing, storing, distributing or using a controlled
substance.

   (b)   Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not less than 14 days nor more
than six months.

   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term "controlled substance"
shall be as defined in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, codified
at 720 ILCS 570/100, et seq., as amended.

(Added Coun. J. 5-2-01, p. 57748, § 1)

7-24-099 Prohibited possession or use of cannabis.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this Section, the following definitions
shall apply:

      "Cannabis" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 1-10
of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.

      "Cannabis concentrate" has the meaning ascribed to that term in
Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.

      "Cannabis-infused product" has the meaning ascribed to that term
in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.

      "Public place" has the meaning ascribed to that term in subsection
(a) of Section 1035 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.

   (b)   Possessing Cannabis. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
(g) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess
cannabis:

      (1)   in a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient
or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act;

      (2)   on the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant
to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;

      (3)   in any correctional facility;

      (4)   in a vehicle not open to the public, unless the cannabis is
in a reasonably secured, sealed container within the meaning of Section
10-35(a)(2)(D) of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. Provided,
however, that in any motor vehicle upon a highway, the cannabis shall be
in a sealed, odor-proof, child-resistant cannabis container within the
meaning of Section 11-502.15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;

      (5)   in a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the
premises; or

      (6)   in violation of Section 4 of the Cannabis Control Act.

   (c)   Using Cannabis. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (g)
of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to use cannabis:

      (1)   in a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient
or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act;

      (2)   on the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary
school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant
to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;

      (3)   in any correctional facility;

      (4)   in any motor vehicle;

      (5)   in a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the
premises; or

      (6)   in any public place.

   (d)   Other Prohibited Acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to:

      (1)   smoke cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited
under the Smoke Free Illinois Act;

      (2)   facilitate the use of cannabis by any person who is not
allowed to use cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program; or

      (3)   transfer cannabis to any person contrary to the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act or Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program
Act.

   (e)   Notice and Hearing. A person upon whom a notice of violation
has been served for violating this section shall: (1) appear for a
hearing at the location, date and time indicated on the notice of
violation; or (2) adjudicate the matter by mail in the time and manner
described in the Procedural Rules and Regulations of the Department of
Administrative Hearings.

   (f)   Penalty for Violation. In addition to any other penalty
provided by law, any person who violates subsections (b), (c) or (d) of
this section shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 for the first offense
and $100.00 for the second and each subsequent violation occurring
within a period of 30 days, or may be required to perform community
service in accordance with Section 1-4-120 or attend a drug awareness,
drug education, or restorative justice program, or any combination
thereof. Each violation of subsections (b), (c) or (d) shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.

   (g)   Construction of Section. This section shall not apply to the
possession or use of medical cannabis by a person in compliance with the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-12, p. 30306, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-14, p.
86194, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 11)

ARTICLE III. CARBOLIC ACID* (7-24-100 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-100 Prescription required.

   It shall be unlawful for any apothecary, druggist, or pharmacist, or
any employee thereof, or any other person whatever, to sell, exchange,
give away, or deliver to any person within the city any carbolic acid or
any extract or product thereof, or any preparation or compound of which
it is an element or ingredient, containing more than five percent of
carbolic acid, except upon the written prescription or order of a duly
licensed physician, and except upon the day or date of such prescription
or order, and there shall be for each such sale, exchange, gift, or
delivery, a special and distinct order or prescription.

   The prescription or order shall have the date thereon of the day on
which it is made, and shall be signed by the physician making it who
shall be a graduate in medicine, and as such have a diploma from a
legally constituted or chartered medical college or medical institution,
and it shall contain the name and residence of the patient for whom it
is intended, and the location of the physician's office or residence.

(Prior code § 97-8)

7-24-110 Inspection of prescriptions.

   All such prescriptions and orders shall be open for inspection by the
coroner, State's Attorney, Assistant State's Attorney, corporation
counsel, superintendent of police, or any regular police officer of this
city. All such prescriptions and orders shall be kept and preserved for
three years after receiving the same. It shall be unlawful for any
person to refuse or prevent in any manner, or by any means, the
inspection of such prescription or such orders, or any thereof, by any
of said officers, and it shall be unlawful for any of the persons
mentioned in Sections 7-24-100 to 7-24-130 who shall sell any such acid
to fail or neglect to keep or preserve such prescriptions or orders.

(Prior code § 97-9)

7-24-120 Fraudulent prescriptions.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to present any false, forged,
untrue, or fictitious prescription or order for any carbolic acid, or
any extract or product thereof, or any preparation or compound of which
it is an element or ingredient, or to obtain the same by means thereof,
or to give any false or fictitious name, or to give or make any false
statement, or any false representation to obtain or in obtaining the
same.

(Prior code § 97-10)

7-24-130 False statements in prescriptions.

   It shall be unlawful for any physician to put a wrong or false date
on any order or prescription for any carbolic acid, or any extract or
product thereof, or any preparation or compound of which it is an
element or ingredient, or to wilfully give any such order or
prescription containing any false statement or representation of any
fact or matter therein, or to give any such order or prescription for a
dose or quantity greater than usual or necessary for bona fide purposes
to cure or prevent sickness or disease.

(Prior code § 97-11)

7-24-140 Crude carbolic acid mixtures and wholesale.

   Sections 7-24-100 to 7-24-130 shall not apply to the sale of crude
carbolic acid in quantities exceeding one gallon, to the sale of a
solution or mixture containing equal portions of carbolic acid,
glycerine, and alcohol, to the commerce or trade among wholesale
druggists and retail druggists, apothecaries, or pharmacists, nor to
sales or gifts to public institutions, charitable institutions, or
hospitals for medical use therein.

(Prior code § 97-12)

ARTICLE IV. WOOD ALCOHOL* (7-24-150 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-150 Sales register.

   It shall be the duty of every person to record legibly in the English
language in a bound book kept for the purpose the name and address of
every person to whom has been sold, without a physician's prescription,
any methyl alcohol, commonly called wood alcohol, together with the
quantity sold and the date on which the sale was made.

(Prior code § 97-13)

7-24-160 Sale regulated.

   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or have in his possession with
the intention of selling, for internal use by a human being any methyl
alcohol or any food or drink, or any preparation or mixture of any kind
whatsoever, containing the same.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell methyl alcohol, or any
mixture or preparation containing the same, or grain alcohol denatured
with methyl alcohol to any person who is addicted to the use of alcohol,
or who shows any signs of alcoholic intoxication or drunkenness.

   The sale of methyl alcohol, or any preparation containing the same,
to any person addicted to the use of alcohol or showing any symptoms or
signs of alcoholic intoxication or drunkenness, shall be considered
prima facie evidence that such methyl alcohol is intended for internal
use by such person.

(Prior code § 97-14)

7-24-170 Label and warning.

   All methyl alcohol, or any preparation or mixture of any kind
containing methyl alcohol or alcohol which has been denatured with
methyl alcohol, sold, offered or sale, or kept with the intention of
selling or using, shall be conspicuously labeled "Wood Alcohol" or "This
preparation contains wood alcohol" and the word "Poison", together with
a skull and crossbones, and the legend "The use of even small quantities
of wood alcohol may cause blindness." The word "Poison" with the skull
and crossbones shall be printed in red ink and shall be at least
one-third of an inch in height, and the warning in regard to blindness
shall be in letters at least one-fourth of an inch in height.

   It shall be the duty of every person selling wood alcohol or
preparations containing the same, to warn the purchaser of the dangerous
and blinding effects of wood alcohol when used internally.

(Prior code § 97-15)

ARTICLE V. TOBACCO* (7-24-190 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-190 Collection of cigar and cigarette stumps.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to pick or gather up from any
public way or public place, any cigar or cigarette butt or stump, or the
waste, unused, or unburned portion of any cigar, tobacco, or cigarette,
for the purpose or with the intent of bartering, selling, or disposing
of the same for use in any form of manufactured tobacco.

   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having the
legal custody or control of any child under the age of 18 years, to
knowingly permit, aid, advise, or encourage any such child to gather or
pick up from the public ways or public places any cigar or cigarette
butt or stump, or the waste, unused, or unburned portion of any cigar,
cigarette, or tobacco.

(Prior code § 97-17; Amend Coun. J. 1-11-91, p. 29130)

7-24-200 Purchase of cigar and cigarette stumps.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy or receive for the purpose
of disposing of the same for use in any form of manufactured tobacco,
any cigar or cigarette butt or stump or the waste, unused, or unburned
portion of any cigar, tobacco, or cigarette gathered from the public
ways or public places in the city.

(Prior code § 97-18)

7-24-210 Manufacture from cigar and cigarette stumps.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture any cigar or
cigarette butt or stump, or the waste, unused, or unburned portion of
any cigar, tobacco, or cigarette gathered in any public way or public
place, in whole or in part into cigars, cigarettes, chewing or smoking
tobacco, or snuff.

(Prior code § 97-19)

ARTICLE VI. OFFICE OF LOCAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY* (7-24-220 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-220 Created.

   There is hereby created and established an executive department of
the city which shall be known as the office of local drug control
policy. Said office shall be under the supervision of a director,
assisted by two deputy directors, all three of whom shall be appointed
by the mayor by and with the consent of the city council.

(Added Coun. J. 2-26-92, p. 13370)

7-24-221 Director and deputy directors – Appointment – Term.

   The director and two deputy directors of the office of local drug
control policy shall each serve at the pleasure of the mayor, and in no
event may any person serve as director or deputy director for a period
exceeding four years. No person shall serve as director or deputy
director while holding any other position in the federal, state or local
government.

(Added Coun. J. 2-26-92, p. 13370)

7-24-222 Director – Duties.

   It shall be the duty of the director of the office of local drug
control policy.

   (a)   To serve as the principal director and coordinator of the
Chicago Drug Control Policy with respect to the applicable provisions in
federal, state or local law;

   (b)   To develop, review, implement and enforce local government
policy regarding drug control programs;

   (c)   To direct and coordinate all local government drug supply
reduction efforts, including intelligence, interdiction and drug
research as well as all other programs designed to halt the production,
importing and manufacture of drugs;

   (d)   To direct and coordinate efforts between the federal, state and
local governments, including the review of state and local drug control
strategies;

   (e)   To direct and coordinate all local government drug demand
reduction efforts, including education, prevention, treatment, research,
and private sector programs; and

   (f)   To develop and coordinate a comprehensive drug educational
program to be utilized by the public and parochial schools of this city
from kindergarten through high school, productive of and conducive to an
eventual drug free environment within the schools of the city.

(Added Coun. J. 2-26-92, p. 13370)

7-24-223 Technical and clerical assistants.

   The director shall appoint his technical and clerical assistants in
such number and for such compensation as may be provided in the annual
appropriation ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 2-26-92, p. 13370)

7-24-224 Donations.

   The director shall be authorized to solicit, to accept and to use
monetary and in-kind donations from the public and private sectors, for
the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 2-26-92, p. 13370)

ARTICLE VII. USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES* (7-24-225 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-225 Unlawful drugs in motor vehicle – Impoundment.

   (a)   Any motor vehicle that is used in connection with the purchase
or attempt to purchase, or sale or attempt to sell, any controlled
substance, as defined in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, as
demonstrated by, including, but not limited to, the amount of such
controlled substance contained in the vehicle, shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section.

   (b)   Any motor vehicle that is used in connection with the unlawful
purchase or unlawful attempt to purchase, or unlawful sale or unlawful
attempt to sell, cannabis may be subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this section.

   (c)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that is seized and
impounded pursuant to this section shall be liable to the City for an
administrative penalty of $1,000, plus towing and storage fees.

   (d)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section,
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility controlled by the City or its agent. Before or at the time the
vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying
himself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation
or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, if there is such person, of the fact of the
seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary
hearing to be conducted under Section 2-14-132 of this Code by serving
such person with a copy of the vehicle impoundment seizure report.

   (e)   Section 2-14-132 shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized
and impounded pursuant to this section.

(Added Coun. J. 3-9-95, p. 66176; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, § 5.2; Amend Coun. J. 12-15-04, p.
39840, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. I, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 7-30-14, p. 86194, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 12;
Amend Coun. J. 7-22-20, p. 18957, § 4)

7-24-226 Driving while intoxicated – Impoundment.

   (a)   No person shall drive or be in actual physical control of any
vehicle within the City of Chicago while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any
combination thereof, as defined and prohibited by 625 ILCS 5/11-501, as
amended.

   (b)   Any vehicle used in a violation of subsection (a) of this
section shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
section. The owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable to the city
for an administrative penalty of $2,000 in addition to fees for the
towing and storage of the vehicle as provided in Section 9-92-080.

   (c)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section,
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility controlled by the City or its agents. Before or at the time the
vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying
himself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation
or the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, if there is such person, of the fact of the
seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary
hearing to be conducted under Section 2-14-132 of this Code by serving
such person with a copy of the vehicle impoundment seizure report.

   (d)   Section 2-14-132 shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized
and impounded pursuant to this section.

(Added Coun. J. 12-12-01, p. 76443, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 12-15-04, p.
39840, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. I, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 142; Amend Coun. J. 7-22-20, p. 18957, § 4))

7-24-228 Burned motor vehicle report to fire commissioner.

   Whenever any motor vehicle, as the term is defined in Section
9-4-010, is burned within the city, and the burning rendered the motor
vehicle permanently inoperable, the owner of record of such vehicle
shall submit to the fire commissioner a signed statement, in a form and
manner and containing such information relating to the burned vehicle
incident as prescribed by the fire commissioner in rules, attesting to
the accuracy of such required information. Any person who knowingly
makes any false, misleading or fraudulent statement of material fact in
such statement shall be subject to Chapter 1-21.

   The fire commissioner is authorized to promulgate rules for the
administration of this section, including the time when such statement
shall be filed.

(Added Coun. J. 6-22-16, p. 26682, § 1)

ARTICLE VIII. VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS* (7-24-230 et seq.)

* Editor's note – See the editor's note at Article II.

7-24-230 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no other penalty is provided shall be fined not less than $10.00 nor
more than $100.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 97-20; Amend Coun. J. 2-26-92 p. 13370)

CHAPTER 7-28
HEALTH NUISANCES

Article I. Nuisances in General

7-28-005   Definitions.

7-28-010   Notice to abate.

7-28-020   Summary abatement.

7-28-030   Common law and statutory nuisances.

7-28-040   Abandonment of refrigerators.

7-28-050   Plastic bags – Violation – Penalty.

7-28-060   Conditions detrimental to health – Public nuisance –
Violation – Penalty.

7-28-065   Graffiti removal – Nuisance abatement.

7-28-070   Piling of used material to excessive heights.

7-28-080   Nuisance in connection with business.

7-28-085   Signs unlawful on private walkways, etc.

7-28-090   Nuisances brought into city.

7-28-100   Reserved.

7-28-110   Gas manufactory odors and refuse.

7-28-120   Weeds – Penalty for violation – Abatement – Lien.

7-28-130   Diseased trees.

7-28-140   Reserved.

7-28-150   Spreading of vermin poison.

7-28-160   Reserved.

7-28-170   Reserved.

7-28-180   Throwing objects in public places of amusement – Violation –
Penalty.

7-28-190   Throwing objects into roadways.

Article II. Refuse

7-28-200   Definitions.

7-28-210   Refuse containers.

7-28-215   Commercial refuse containers – Permit required.

7-28-217   Commercial refuse containers and compactors; grease
containers – Identification.

7-28-220   Duty to provide refuse containers and service.

7-28-225   Duty to provide compactors.

7-28-226   Zone of nonoperation.

7-28-227   Duty to provide refuse containers at construction or
demolition sites.

7-28-230   Location of standard and commercial refuse containers.

7-28-235   City refuse collection – Fee.

7-28-240   Refuse removal.

7-28-250   Reserved.

7-28-260   Containers – Use.

7-28-261   Accumulation of refuse – Responsibility.

7-28-270   Contents of standard and commercial refuse containers and
compactors.

7-28-280   Removal of contents.

7-28-290   Ashes.

7-28-300   Removal of restaurant garbage.

7-28-301   Grease containers.

7-28-302   Grease containers – Maintenance and removal.

7-28-303   Location of grease containers.

7-28-305   Location of grease containers on the public way.

7-28-310   Owner of business responsible for removal when – Violation –
Penalty.

7-28-315   Removal of litter from a retail establishment's parking area.

7-28-320   Incinerators and ash chutes.

7-28-330   Sale of garbage prohibited.

7-28-331   Reserved.

7-28-340   Reserved.

7-28-350   Reserved.

7-28-360   Removal of refuse before vacation of premises.

7-28-370   Disposal of furnishings, bedding, clothing or other materials
infested with bed bugs.

7-28-380   Refuse vehicles.

7-28-390   Dumping on public way – Violation – Penalty.

7-28-395   Construction debris on public way prohibited.

7-28-400   Disinfection of refuse vehicles.

7-28-410   Reserved.

7-28-420   Industrial refuse.

7-28-430   Decaying animal matter.

7-28-440   Dumping on real estate without permit – Nuisance – Violation
– Penalty – Recovery of costs.

7-28-445   Reserved.

7-28-450   Unremoved motor vehicles, ashes, refuse, waste, debris and
other materials – Owner responsible for removal – Nuisance – Violation –
Penalty.

7-28-455   Unremoved motor vehicles, ashes, refuse, waste, debris and
other materials – Substantial risk to the public – Nuisance – City
authorized to remove – Notice – Violation – Penalty – Costs.

7-28-460   Substances that scatter in wind.

7-28-470   Refuse on roof or in areaway.

7-28-480   Inspection of roofs and areaways.

7-28-490   Roofers.

7-28-500   Removal of roofing refuse.

7-28-510   Objects that may damage tires – Illegal to dump on public
way.

7-28-511   Definitions.

7-28-512   Application.

7-28-513   Waste management.

7-28-514   Treatment of infectious waste.

7-28-515   Transportation.

7-28-516   Management plan.

7-28-517   Responsibilities and enforcement authority.

7-28-518   Penalties.

7-28-519   Severability.

7-28-520   Additional penalty for violation of article.

Article III. Reserved

7-28-530   Reserved.

7-28-540   Reserved.

7-28-550   Reserved.

7-28-560   Reserved.

7-28-570   Reserved.

7-28-580   Reserved.

7-28-590   Reserved.

7-28-600   Reserved.

7-28-610   Reserved.

7-28-620   Reserved.

Article IV. Offensive Chemicals and Substances

7-28-630   Possession and sale – Violation – Penalty.

7-28-631   Corrosive or caustic acid registry.

7-28-635    Sale of mercury thermometers containing mercury substance.

7-28-637   BPA-free kids ordinance.

7-28-639   Gel fuel – Prohibition on sale.

7-28-640   Prescription required – Violation – Penalty.

7-28-650   Offensive bombs in public places – Violation – Penalty.

Article V. Rat Control

7-28-660   Reserved.

7-28-670   Inspection notice.

7-28-680   Maintenance.

7-28-690   Unlawful to remove rat-stoppage.

7-28-700   Structural changes.

7-28-710   Dumping prohibited.

7-28-715   Composting standards.

7-28-720   Accumulation of materials or junk.

7-28-730   Reserved.

7-28-735   Reserved.

Article VI. Lot Maintenance

7-28-740   Lot maintenance – Required.

7-28-750   Screen fence required – Nuisance declared when.

7-28-760   Severability.

7-28-770   Exemption.

7-28-780   Parking of Vehicles in a Vacant Lot – Penalty for Violation –
Abatement – Lien..

7-28-785   Collection bins.

7-28-790   Reserved.

Article VII. Violation of Chapter Provisions

7-28-800   Violation – Penalty.

Article VIII. Bed Bugs

7-28-810   Definitions.

7-28-820   Bed bugs – Nuisance.

7-28-830   Bed bug infestation – Duty to exterminate.

7-28-840   Condominium and cooperative buildings – Plan for treatment of
bed bugs.

7-28-850   Tenant responsibility.

7-28-860   Sale of secondhand bedding.

7-28-870   Public information.

7-28-880   Rules.

7-28-890   Enforcement.

7-28-900   Violation – Penalties.

ARTICLE I. NUISANCES IN GENERAL (7-28-005 et seq.)

7-28-005 Definitions.

   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following terms
shall have the following meanings, unless the written context clearly
indicates that another meaning is intended:

   "Owner" shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in Chapter 14A-2.

(Added Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p.
100029, Art. II, § 86)

7-28-010 Notice to abate.

   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner or the Building
Commissioner's designee to serve notice in writing by first class mail
upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of
any building or structure in or upon which any nuisance may be found, or
upon any person who may be the owner or cause of any such nuisance other
than the nuisance specified in Sections 7-28-120 or 7-28-440 through
7-28-455 or 7-28-750 of this chapter, ordering such owner, occupant,
agent or person to abate such nuisance, within a reasonable time, in the
manner the Building Commissioner shall prescribe. It shall not be
necessary in any case for the Building Commissioner to specify in such
notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated, unless the
Building Commissioner deems it advisable to do so. If the person so
notified shall neglects, refuses or otherwise fails to comply with any
of the requirements of such order within the time specified in the
notice required under this section, such person shall be fined not less
than $250.00 nor more than $500.00 for each such offense. Each day that
a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
to which a separate fine shall apply. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to require issuance of a notice to abate when the City does
not affirmatively seek abatement as a remedy.

   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to proceed at once,
upon expiration of the time period specified in the notice, to cause the
applicable nuisance to be abated. Provided, however, that if, after due
diligence, the owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession or
control of any building or structure in or upon which any nuisance may
be found is unknown or cannot be found, the Building Commissioner shall
proceed to abate the nuisance without notice. In either case, in
addition to any fine or other penalty provided by law, the person who
created, continued or suffered the nuisance to exist shall be liable to
the city for any and all costs and expenses incurred by the city in
abating the nuisance, plus a penalty of up to three times the amount of
the costs and expenses incurred by the city. Such monies may be
recovered in an appropriate action instituted by the corporation counsel
or in a proceeding initiated by the applicable department at Department
of Administrative Hearings. The Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation
or the Commissioner's designee shall enforce the provisions of Sections
7-28-120, 7-28-440 through 7-28-455 and 7-28-750 in the manner provided
herein for nuisances generally, unless the specific section provides
otherwise.

(Prior code § 99-1; Amended. Coun. J. 12-18-86, p. 38654; Amend Coun. J.
4-29-98, p. 66564; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
11-7-22, p. 55595, Art. III, § 2)

7-28-020 Summary abatement.

   Whenever any nuisance under this Chapter 7-28 shall be found on any
premises within the city, the commissioner of buildings or commissioner
of health or commissioner of streets and sanitation or the corporation
counsel is hereby authorized, in his or her discretion, to seek to
enjoin such nuisance or to cause the same to be summarily abated in such
manner as he or she may direct pursuant to the applicable provisions of
this Code.

(Prior code § 99-2; Amend Coun. J. 12-11-91, p. 10978; Amended Coun. J.
9-27-07, p. 9208, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 2-9-11, p. 112123, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 6)

7-28-030 Common law and statutory nuisances.

   In all cases where no provision is herein made defining what are
nuisances and how the same may be removed, abated, or prevented, in
addition to what may be declared such herein, those offenses which are
known to the common law of the land and the statutes of Illinois as
nuisances may, in case the same exist within the city limits or within
one mile thereof, be treated as such, and proceeded against as is
provided in this Code, or in accordance with any other provision of law.

(Prior code § 99-3)

7-28-040 Abandonment of refrigerators.

   Any person who abandons or discards in any place accessible to
children any refrigerator, ice box or ice chest of a capacity of one and
one-half cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door which may
be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or who being
the owner, lessee, or manager of any place or premises knowingly permits
such abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain
there in such condition, shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more
than $200.00 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each
offense. Every day that such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-3.1; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 4.1)

7-28-050 Plastic bags – Violation – Penalty.

   Definition: "Plastic bag" means a polyethylene bag, other than one
used for food products weighing not more than five pounds, intended for
household use which is larger than seven inches in diameter at the
opened end, and is made of thin film less than one mil (0.001 inch) in
thickness (according to standards established under the Commodity
Standards Division of the United States Department of Commerce).

   No person shall package, deliver or sell any article for use in or
around the household in a plastic bag, or shall sell or distribute any
plastic bag for use in or around the household, unless the bag bears a
warning against the hazard of suffocation by children in the following
or substantially equivalent wording:

      WARNING: Keep this bag away from babies and children. Do not use
in cribs, beds, carriages, or playpens. The thin film may cling to nose
and mouth and prevent breathing.

   The warning shall be printed on, attached to, or accompany each bag;
provided, however, that it shall be permissible to print the warning on
the outside wrapper of packages of bags intended for home processing use
only, e.g., freezer bags, garbage disposal bags, in lieu of on each
individual bag. The warning shall be prominently and conspicuously
displayed in bold-face type, in accordance with the following table:

      Total of the length and width of the bag, combined

      60 inches or more.....24 points

      40 inches, but less than 60 inches.....18 points

      30 inches, but less than 40 inches.....14 points

      Less than 30 inches.....10 points

      Any person violating this section shall be fined $200.00 for each
offense.

(Prior code § 99-3.2)

7-28-060 Conditions detrimental to health – Public nuisance – Violation
– Penalty.

   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or
part thereof, shall be made, used, kept, maintained, or operated in the
city if such use, keeping, maintaining, or operating shall be the
occasion of any nuisance, or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental
to health.

   Every building or structure constructed or maintained in violation of
the building provisions of this Code, or which is in an unsanitary
condition, or in an unsafe or dangerous condition, or which in any
manner endangers the health or safety of any person or persons, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Every building or part thereof
which is in an unsanitary condition by reason of the basement or cellar
being covered with stagnant water, or by reason of the presence of sewer
gas, or by reason of any portion of a building being infected with
disease or being unfit for human habitation, or which by reason of any
other unsanitary condition, is a source of sickness, or which endangers
the public health, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.

   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $200.00 nor more
than $5,000.00, or imprisonment not to exceed 10 days, or both such fine
and imprisonment for each offense. Each day such violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-4; Amend Coun. J. 7-9-86, p. 31580; Amend Coun. J.
8-30-00, p. 40306, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 56894, § 1)

7-28-065 Graffiti removal – Nuisance abatement.

   (a)   As defined in this section, graffiti that is unregistered is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The owner of record, or the
person in charge, possession or control of any building or structure
upon which graffiti is placed or affixed shall, upon the appearance of
the graffiti: (i) cause such graffiti to be removed or concealed or (ii)
register the graffiti according to rules promulgated by the Commissioner
of Cultural Affairs and Special Events. Whenever any unregistered
graffiti shall be found on any building or other structure, the
Department of Streets and Sanitation, or its agent or contractor shall
attempt to obtain consent from the owner for the City’s graffiti removal
services. If such attempt to contact the owner is not successful, the
Department of Streets and Sanitation shall post a notice in a prominent
place upon the building or structure where the unregistered graffiti is
found which shall state that, if the unregistered graffiti is not
removed or concealed or registered according to the rules within five
days after the notice is posted, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays, the Department of Streets and Sanitation or its agent or
contractor shall have authority to enter or access the property and
abate the nuisance by removing or concealing the unregistered graffiti.

   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the City from taking any
other enforcement action authorized by law.

   (c)   "Graffiti" means an inscription, drawing, mark or design that
is etched, painted, sprayed or drawn directly upon the exterior of any
building or other structure and is visible from the public way; provided
that, graffiti shall not include any sign permitted by the Zoning Code
or any decoration that is part of the architectural design of the
building or structure.

(Amend Coun. J. 3-11-98, p. 61944; Amend Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32562, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 5-11-05, p. 48079, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 10-31-18, p.
87776, § 2)

7-28-070 Piling of used material to excessive heights.

   No yard, lot, premises or enclosure or part thereof, shall be used,
kept, maintained, or operated, for the purpose of storing used lumber,
metal or other secondhand building material, dismantled motor vehicles
or parts thereof, creates, cases, boxes or other discarded material
unless the said yard, lot, premises or enclosure is entirely surrounded
by a fence eight feet in height, which fence shall be located at least
eight feet from all public ways surrounding the property and none of
said articles shall be piled nearer than six inches to, nor higher than
said fence; provided, however, that if said articles are piled at a
greater distance than eight feet from any public way they may be piled
to a height equal to the distance from the public way, but in no case to
a height exceeding 20 feet. On the property dividing lines of such yard,
lot, premises or enclosure said fence may be erected on the property
dividing line but none of said articles shall be piled nearer than six
inches to said fence nor be piled at an angle of more than 45 degrees
from such point, but not to exceed a height of 20 feet. Where an
existing fence is erected nearer than eight feet to a public way, such
fence may be permitted to remain but none of said articles shall be
piled nearer than eight feet to such public way nor contrary to the
provisions of this section. The piling of said articles in excess of the
height herein permitted shall constitute a nuisance. Any person who
violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less than
$200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each offense. Every day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-4.1; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 4.2)

7-28-080 Nuisance in connection with business.

   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever, which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in
connection with any business, or be used therein, or be used in any work
or labor performed in the city, and no nuisance shall be permitted to
exist in connection with any business or in connection with any such
work or labor. Any person who violates this section shall be subject to
a fine of not less than $300.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each
offense. Each day that such a violation continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-5; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-00, p. 46866, § 1)

7-28-085 Signs unlawful on private walkways, etc.

   It shall be unlawful to erect any sign on the surface of a privately
owned walkway or parking lot made available for public use and access if
the placement of such sign obstructs the use of the facility made
available for public use and creates a public safety hazard. Any person
found to have violated this section shall be fined not less than $100.00
nor more than $500.00.

(Amend Coun. J. 7-2-97, p. 47906; Amend Coun. J. 4-30-14, p. 80382, § 1)

7-28-090 Nuisances brought into city.

   No person shall bring into the city, or keep therein for sale or
otherwise, either for food, or for any other purpose, any dead or live
animal, nor any matter, substance, or thing which shall be a nuisance or
which shall occasion a nuisance in the city, or which may or shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health.

(Prior code § 99-6)

7-28-100 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-100, which
pertained to offensive premises – Penalty.

7-28-110 Gas manufactory odors and refuse.

   No person manufacturing gas shall throw, deposit, or allow to run, or
permit to be thrown or deposited, into any public way, any gas-tar or
any refuse matter from any gas house, gas reservoir, works, or
manufactory; nor shall any such person allow any substance or odor to
escape from such gas house, gas reservoir, works, or manufactory, or
make any gas of such ingredients or quality that any substance shall
escape therefrom, or be formed in the process of burning any gas, which
shall be offensive or dangerous, or prejudicial to life or health. Every
such person shall use the most approved and all reasonable means for
preventing the escape of odors.

(Prior code § 99-8)

7-28-120 Weeds – Penalty for violation – Abatement – Lien.

   (a)   Any person who owns or controls property within the city must
cut or otherwise control all weeds on such property so that the average
height of such weeds does not exceed ten inches. Any person who violates
this subsection shall be subject to a fine of not less than $600 nor
more than $1,200. Each day that such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense to which a separate fine shall apply.

   (b)   All weeds which have not been cut or otherwise controlled, and
which exceed an average height of ten inches, are hereby declared to be
a public nuisance. If any person has been convicted of violating
subsection (a) and has not cut or otherwise controlled any weeds as
required by this section within ten days after the date of the
conviction or finding of liability or judgement, the City may cause any
such weeds to be cut at any time. In such event, the person who owns or
controls the property on which the weeds are situated shall be liable to
the City for any and all costs and expenses incurred by the City in
cutting the weeds, plus a penalty of up to three times the amount of the
costs and expenses incurred by the City. Such monies may be recovered in
an appropriate action instituted by the Corporation Counsel or in a
proceeding initiated by the Department of Streets and Sanitation or the
Department of Health at the Department of Administrative Hearings. The
penalties imposed by this subsection shall be in addition to any other
penalty provided by law.

   (c)   The costs and expenses plus the amount of any applicable
penalty incurred pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall
constitute a lien against the affected property if the city, or the
person performing the service by authority of the city, in its or his
own name, files a notice of lien in the office of the county recorder,
or in the office of the registrar of titles if the property is
registered under the Torrens System. The notice of lien shall consist of
a sworn statement setting out:

      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;

      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred by the city or payable for the service plus the amount of any
applicable penalty incurred pursuant to subsection (b) of this section;

      (3)   The date or dates when the cost or expense was incurred by
the city.

   The notice of lien shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and
expense and any applicable penalty is incurred; provided, however, that
nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the City from
collecting any amount of money owed to the City as set forth in the
findings, decision and order of an administrative law officer or in a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or in any other
manner permitted by law.

   Upon payment, after notice of lien has been filed, of the amount of
money representing the cost and expense incurred by the city, plus the
amount of any applicable penalty incurred pursuant to subsection (b) of
this section, the lien shall be released by the city for filing by the
owner at the recorder of deeds.

   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the city from
acting without notice to abate a nuisance under this section, where such
nuisance poses an imminent threat to the public health, safety or
welfare or in the event of any other emergency. Nor shall any provision
of this section be construed to deny to any person any statutory or
common law right to abate a nuisance, or to prevent the city from
seeking any remedy that may be provided by law. If emergency abatement
under this section is required, the city may recover any and all costs
associated with such emergency abatement under Section 1-20-020.

(Prior code § 99-9; Amend Coun. J. 12-20-89, p. 10123; Amend Coun. J.
12-4-02, p. 99931, § 4.3; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 4; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
14596, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 5888, § 16)

7-28-130 Diseased trees.

   All trees which become affected with Dutch elm disease are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.

   Any person owning or controlling any plot of ground upon which such a
tree is situated shall, upon the appearance of evidence of any such
disease, cause such tree to be sprayed and removed from the premises and
burned.

   If the owner or person in control of any plot of ground upon which
such a tree is situated fails to have such tree so sprayed, removed and
burned within ten days after receipt of notification by certified mail
of positive evidence that the tree is affected with Dutch elm disease,
the general superintendent of forestry, parkways and beautification
shall proceed to have such tree sprayed, removed and burned, and any
expense incurred by the city in so doing shall be a charge against the
owner so failing, which may be recovered in an appropriate action at law
instituted by the corporation counsel.

(Prior code § 99-9.1)

7-28-140 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-140, which
pertained to floral designs in cemeteries.

7-28-150 Spreading of vermin poison.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to spread, or to cause or permit
any agent or employee to spread, any poison for the purpose of killing
rats, mice, insects, or other vermin, in any public way or public place
in the city; and it shall be unlawful for any person to spread or to
cause or permit any agent or employee to spread, any poison for such
purpose in any yards, court, passageway, or other open place on private
premises, or on the outside of any building or structure, or in any
place within a building which is open to the general public, or where
pet dogs, cats, or other domestic animals or fowls have access, without
placing the same in a receptacle of such kind or character that it can
be reached only by the kind of vermin which the poison is intended to
kill, or without placing a wire or other guard about same in such way
that no child, or domestic animal, domestic fowl, or other harmless
creature can reach the same.

(Prior code § 99-11)

7-28-160 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-160, which
pertained to spitting in public.

7-28-170 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-170, which
pertained to disposal of facial tissues.

7-28-180 Throwing objects in public places of amusement – Violation –
Penalty.

   No person shall cast, drop or throw any object, missile or any other
substance or article in, from or into any public place of amusement.

   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 99-13.1)

7-28-190 Throwing objects into roadways.

   It shall be unlawful for any person:

      (1)   To loiter on any public bridge, viaduct or overpass in such
manner or for such purpose as might jeopardize the safety or well-being
of any person upon or near the roadway below;

      (2)   To stop any vehicle on any public bridge, viaduct or
overpass except for necessary emergency purposes or upon the order of a
police officer or other person authorized to direct such action;

      (3)   To throw or drop or cause to be thrown or dropped from any
public bridge, viaduct or overpass any article or thing which might
jeopardize the safety or well-being of any person upon or near the
roadway below.

   Any violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a nuisance and the offender shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $50.00 or more than $200.00, or imprisonment not to exceed six
months, or both, and every violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-13.2)

ARTICLE II. REFUSE (7-28-200 et seq.)

7-28-200 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and terms shall
be understood as having the following meanings:

   "Ashes" means all ashes of wood, coal and coke; the residue resulting
from the combustion of any material or substance, soot, cinders, slag or
charcoal.

   "Dwelling unit" has the meaning ascribed to that term in section
17-17-0248.

   "Garbage" means rejected organic matter, household food, cooking
grease or kindred refuse, manure, swill or carrion.

   "Grease container" means any container used for the storage,
collection or removal of cooking grease or kindred refuse.

   "Junk" means old iron, chain, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base
metals, old rope, old bags, rags, wastepaper, paper clippings, scraps of
woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass, and empty bottles of
different kinds and sizes when the number of each kind of size is less
than one gross, and all articles and things discarded or no longer used
as a manufactured article composed of, or consisting of, any one or more
of the materials or articles herein mentioned. Junk includes items and
materials stored for resale with no more processing than sorting,
crushing or separation from other items and materials.

   "Litter" includes but is not limited to the following: (a) picnic or
eating utensils, such as paper plates, cups, napkins, towels, plastic
utensils, metal foil, cellophane, wax paper, paper bags or any food
wrappings; (b) liquid or beverage containers such as beer, soft-drink
and juice cans, beer, soft-drink, liquor and wine bottles, and milk or
juice cartons; (c) tobacco and confection wrappers, such as cigarette
packages, candy, ice cream, Popsicle, gum or any other type of dessert
or confection wrapping or container; (d) food wastes, such as fruit or
vegetable peelings, pulp, rinds, leftovers or any other type of table
wastes; (e) newspapers, books, placards, handbills, pamphlets,
circulars, notices or papers of any type; (f) or any other type of
rubbish, garbage, refuse matter, article, thing or substance such as
discarded clothing, boxes, dust, manure or ashes.

   "Litter basket" means any container suitable for the storage and
collection of litter on the public way or private parking lot
properties.

   "Manure" means the excrement of all domestic animals and fowl, stable
bedding, and all hay, straw, shavings, grass and weeds, or leaves which
have been used for stable or fowlhouse bedding.

   "Multiple dwelling" means a building that contains 2 or more dwelling
units.

   "Occupational unit" means a property or part of a property designed,
intended, or used for any business purpose other than a single dwelling
or multiple dwelling.

   "Retail establishment" means each separate store location, whether or
not affiliated with any other store location, where goods or services
are offered for sale to the consuming public.

   "Refuse" means all garbage, junk, ashes, and all other rejected
matter, rubbish, and dust.

   "Single dwelling" means a building that contains no more than one
dwelling unit.

   "Unified statement of charges" has the same definition ascribed to
that term in section 11-12-010,

(Prior code § 99-14; Amend Coun. J. 4-15-95, p. 67576; Amend Coun. J.
4-29-98, p. 66564; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J.
5-2-01, p. 57399, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 12062, Art. IX, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 2-10-16, p. 18540, § 1)

7-28-210 Refuse containers.

   (a)   Standard refuse container. The standard refuse container
required by this chapter shall be a receptacle of impervious material
and sturdy construction, with a tight fitting cover, and shall be
provided by the department of streets and sanitation.

   (b)   Commercial refuse container. The commercial refuse container
required by this chapter shall be provided or contracted for by the
property owner or his agent or the occupant of an occupational unit, and
shall be a leak-resistant, rodent-resistant, and lidded container which
is constructed of impervious material and subject to the inspection of
the department of health and the department of streets and sanitation.

   (c)   Refuse compactor. The refuse compactor required by this chapter
shall be a leak-resistant and rodent-resistant container constructed of
impervious material and capable of reducing the volume of waste
contained within it a minimum of 65 percent, subject to the inspection
of the department of health and the department of streets and
sanitation, and provided or contracted for by the property owner or his
agent, unless otherwise agreed to by the lease agreement.

(Prior code § 99-15; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-215 Commercial refuse containers – Permit required.

   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:

   "Provider" shall mean the person who provides refuse collection
services, and if applicable, the Disposal and Recycling Management
Company as defined in Section 4-6-130, for a refuse container that has
been provided for use at a requested location.

   "Refuse container" shall mean the commercial refuse container or
refuse compactor described in Section 7-28-210 of the Code. However,
"refuse container" shall not include a receptacle provided for the
convenience of customers of a business establishment if no refuse
collection service has been contracted for that receptacle.

   (B)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any provider to
place, maintain or provide refuse collection services for a refuse
container for use in the City of Chicago unless such provider shall
first obtain a refuse container permit for that container.

   (C)   Application. An application for a refuse container permit shall
be made to the Commissioner of Transportation. In addition to such other
information as the Commissioner may require, the applicant shall state
the name, address, container locations, container sizes and telephone
number of the provider or providers of the refuse container. The
information shall be updated periodically or otherwise as prescribed by
the Commissioner of Transportation.

   (D)   Permit fee. Except with respect to refuse containers intended
and used exclusively either: (i) for the collection of recyclable
materials or (ii) by a unit of local government or school district that
levies a property tax exclusively within the City of Chicago, as to
which there shall be no permit fee, the permit fee for each refuse
container permitted pursuant to this section shall be as follows:

      Type A (under one cubic yard).....$17

      Type B (one to two cubic yards)......$32

      Type C (two to 10 cubic yards).....$63

      Type D (over 10 cubic yards).....$164

      Type R (used exclusively for recycling).....no fee

   Beginning January 1, 2021, and each year on January 1st thereafter,
this permit fee shall automatically be increased in proportion to any
increase in the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the Chicago
metropolitan area, up to 2.5 percent in any one year, or in an amount
that the Commissioner determines is supported by the costs associated
with administering such permit. The Commissioner shall ensure that such
permit fee is published on a publicly accessible website. A permittee
shall also be responsible for additional charges above the cost of the
permit fee as described in this section.

   The Commissioner of Transportation is authorized, by rule, to impose
an additional technology surcharge of up to 10 percent of the above fees
as may be necessary to administer data collection using the verification
technology provided for in Section 7-28-217(a). Such surcharge shall be
added to and payable as part of the permit fee. The permit shall be
valid for a four-month period beginning on April 1, August 1, and
December 1 of each year. In each year the permit fee shall be paid no
later than the following dates, unless a different payment schedule is
specified by the Commissioner of Transportation by rule:

      July 15 for the period beginning April 1.

      November 15 for the period beginning August 1.

      March 15 for the period beginning December 1 of the previous year.

   (E)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforceable by any one of
the following: the Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation, the
Commissioner of Transportation, the Commissioner of Business Affairs and
Consumer Protection, or the Comptroller, or their respective designees.
The Commissioner of Transportation shall have the authority to
promulgate such rules as the Commissioner deems necessary or appropriate
for the proper administration and enforcement of this section. The
Comptroller may require that a provider produce such records and other
information that the Comptroller considers necessary to determine
compliance with this section.

   (F)   Penalties.

      (1)   Any person violating this section or any rule or regulation
promulgated under this section shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $250.00 nor more than $1,500.00 for each offense.

      (2)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition, any refuse container not
validly permitted may be removed by the city, and all costs associated
with such removal shall be borne by the provider of the refuse
container. The owner of a refuse container, if different from a
provider, shall be jointly and severally liable with the provider for
any violation of this section.

      (3)   Where a provider has contracted with a Disposal and
Recycling Management Company ("company"), as defined in Section 4-6-130,
for the provision of those services, the provider and the company shall
be jointly and severally liable for the penalties provided by this
section.

(Added Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 156; Amend Coun. J. 6-25-14, p.
82896, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-18-18, p. 75051, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
11-24-20, p. 24619, Art. VI, § 2)

7-28-217 Commercial refuse containers and compactors; grease containers
– Identification.

   (a)   The owner of a commercial refuse container or compactor, or
grease container, at a building where refuse is removed at the expense
of the owner, his agent or occupant of the property, shall label the
container with the following information: the address of the person
using the commercial container; in the case of a business, the name of
the business or businesses served by the container, and the name and
telephone number of the person providing refuse collection service for
that container; and, in the case of a residential building, the name of
the person responsible for payment for refuse collection service for
that container at the building. The labeling shall be indelible, in
letters no less than one inch high, in a color that contrasts clearly
with its background, placed on the vertical surface opposite the hinge
of the container's cover. The container shall be placed during normal
use so that the label is visible from the alley adjacent to the building
served by the container. Said owner, in addition to or as part of
affixing the required label, shall equip each container with a form of
technology (by way of non-limiting examples, a bar code or wireless
transmitting device), following approval of that technology by the
commissioner of streets and sanitation in consultation with the
commissioner of transportation, that enables authorized city personnel
to (i) verify that the container is properly permitted, and (ii)
ascertain other information specified by said commissioners that is
relevant to the legal status of the container. Containers used
exclusively for recycling shall be marked in a manner specified by the
commissioner of transportation.

   (b)   No person shall cover, alter, obscure or remove the identifying
label or technological device required under subsection (a) of this
section.

   (c)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-13-94, p. 53272; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend
Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68141, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 5-13-09, p. 63017, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 6-25-14, p. 82896, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 2-10-16, p. 18540,
§ 1)

7-28-220 Duty to provide refuse containers and service.

   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every occupational unit to
provide or contract to maintain in good condition and repair, unless
otherwise provided for by lease agreement, sufficient commercial refuse
container(s) and scavenger service to meet its waste generation and
recycling needs, so as not to allow the container(s) to overflow.

   It shall be the duty of the licensed scavenger to maintain in good
condition and repair such commercial refuse containers. Notwithstanding
this requirement, and unless otherwise agreed to by the parties via
contract, the occupant shall be liable for its usage of the container(s)
and for notifying the property owner or his agent of the need for
additional containerization or service, including recycling service.

   The owner or his agent of every multiple dwelling with five or more
dwelling units, if not required to have a compactor under section
7-28-225 at the owner's or his agent's expense shall provide or contract
for sufficient commercial refuse containers using a minimum standard of
1/4 cubic yard for each occupied dwelling unit per week, including
container space for recyclable material. The 1/4 cubic yard requirement
can be lowered if the multiple dwelling can verify a lower waste
generation rate over a period of months. The commissioner of streets and
sanitation shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
related to the cubic yard verification. If an owner of a multiple
dwelling elects to contract for refuse pickup more than one time per
week, the minimum cubic yard standard shall decrease accordingly.

   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside of the
building must be kept in standard or commercial refuse containers or
refuse compactors.

(Prior code § 99-16; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J.
2-9-11, p. 112120, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 12062, Art. IX, § 2)

7-28-225 Duty to provide compactors.

   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of an occupational unit
and the owner of a multiple dwelling with five or more dwelling units
with a waste generation of 50 cubic yards recyclable material collected
as part of a recycling program, such as recyclable material collected in
accordance with Chapter 11-5, to provide or contract for a refuse
compactor and collection service with a minimum of once per week
collection, except that a compactor shall not be required (i) when there
is no suitable location on private property, or (ii) for multiple
dwellings with five or more dwelling units that are only accessible by
use of a private driveway, or (iii) if the occupational unit or multiple
dwelling receives refuse collection service a minimum of five times per
week. If the department of streets and sanitation determines there is a
suitable location on the property, but the owner or his agent does not
wish to use the space for the compactor, a permit for use of the public
way shall be required. If the department of streets and sanitation
determines that a compactor may not be placed in the public way, the
compactor must be placed on the suitable location on private property.
The commissioner of streets and sanitation shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations regarding the definition of suitable
location and regarding the exclusion of commingled recyclables from the
50 cubic yard weekly refuse amount.

(Added Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68141, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 12062, Art. IX, § 2)

Editor's note – The provisions of this section were effective July 7,
2000.

7-28-226 Zone of nonoperation.

   (1)   Zone of nonoperation. No person shall grind or compact, or load
into a mobile or stationary grinding or compacting device, garbage,
wastes, refuse or other matter (within the meaning of Section 4-6-130,
of this chapter), without a special permit, between the hours of 9:30
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Mondays through Fridays, and between the hours of
9:30 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, on any street,
alley, public way or on public or private property within the boundaries
of the City of Chicago, which: (A) is within the area bounded by Weed
Street on the north, Halsted Street on the east, Blackhawk Street on the
south and Dayton Street on the west, or (B) adjoins or is within 250
feet of any business or residential zoning classification as defined in
the Chicago Zoning Ordinance; except that this section shall not apply
to that area bounded by the Chicago River on the north, Lake Michigan on
the east, a line delineated by Ida B. Wells Drive extended and Ida B.
Wells Drive on the south, the South Branch of the Chicago River on the
west. Special permits to operate within the zone of nonoperation during
the hours prohibited aforesaid, may be issued by the commissioner of
streets and sanitation only after a showing, based on health, safety or
public welfare that an extreme hardship exists. This section shall not
apply to household appliances.

   (2)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any of the provisions of this Section 7-28-226, shall
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than
$1,000.00.

(Added Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 157; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p.
38872, § 143; Amend Coun. J. 12-12-12, p. 42395, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
11-20-19, p. 9510, Art. I, § 4)

7-28-227 Duty to provide refuse containers at construction or demolition
sites.

   (a)   Every owner, manager or general contractor of any building,
structure or parcel, for which a permit for new construction or
demolition at the site has been issued, shall provide and maintain in
good condition and repair commercial refuse containers sufficient in
size and number to prevent any overflow or accumulation of refuse
outside of the containers.

   (b)   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or general
contractor to cause all refuse, excluding construction or building
material and debris, produced or located at the site to be deposited
daily in the commercial refuse containers.

   (c)   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or general
contractor to keep each commercial refuse container located at the site
covered with a tightly fitted cover at all times, except when opened for
deposit or removal of the refuse.

   (d)   It shall be the duty of every owner, manager or general
contractor to cause to be removed at his own cost and expense all
refuse, excluding construction or building material and debris, located
at the site. The removal shall be of such frequency to prevent the
overflow and accumulation of refuse outside of the containers and shall
be in accordance with the provisions of this Code.

   (e)   No container used for the storage, collection and removal of
refuse shall be placed so as to constitute a nuisance to adjacent
property or the occupants thereof.

   (f)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 5-2-01, p. 57399, § 1)

7-28-230 Location of standard and commercial refuse containers.

   Standard and commercial refuse containers shall be placed for
collection in the following manner:

   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section,
for alley collections, at the public alley lot line on the premises
served so as to be immediately accessible to refuse collection vehicles.
It shall be the duty of the property owner or his agent to provide
suitable space at such public alley lot line for such container;
provided, however, that a container may be placed in the public way if:
(i) the property does not have suitable space as determined by the
Department of Streets and Sanitation and defined in the rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and (ii) the structure on the
property was in existence on July 31, 1999.

      (2)   A property owner or his agent seeking City refuse collection
may petition the Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation to be allowed to
place one or more refuse containers in the public alley if the property
owner or his agent can show: (i) that there is insufficient room to put
the containers on the owner’s property; (ii) that the refuse containers
can be placed directly adjacent the owner’s property; and (iii) that the
containers can be placed so as to not obstruct traffic through the
alley. The Commissioner shall reject the petition if all three
conditions are not satisfied.

   (b)   For curb collections, at the curb line not earlier than the
evening preceding the designated collection day, and removal from the
public way not later than the evening of such day, except for
occupational units not operating on the day after collection.

   (c)   No container used for the storage, collection and removal of
garbage or other refuse shall be placed so as to constitute a nuisance
to adjacent property or the occupants thereof. If a refuse container
belonging to one property is found in a location other than one of the
locations prescribed by this section, the owner of the property which
the container serves shall be liable for a violation of this section.

(Prior code § 99-17; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J.
11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11514,
Art. X, § 1)

7-28-235 City refuse collection – Fee.

   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the City shall be
the exclusive provider of refuse collection services to the dwelling
units identified in subsection (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) of this
section, and to the properties identified in subsection (a)(2) of this
section, if such dwelling units or properties directly abut the public
way and the refuse container is placed for collection in accordance with
Section 7-28-230:

      (1)   for dwelling units:

         (i)   a single dwelling;

         (ii)   a multiple dwelling containing four or fewer dwelling
units;

         (iii)   a townhouse when the refuse container is placed for
collection in compliance with Section 7-28-230; or

         (iv)   a multiple dwelling that is licensed as a
bed-and-breakfast establishment pursuant to Section 4-6-290 and contains
four or fewer dwelling units unless the Commissioner of Streets and
Sanitation determines that the establishment is producing an
unreasonable amount of refuse for a building of its size, notifies the
owner or owner's agent of such fact in writing, and provides the owner
or owner's agent with an opportunity to correct the problem in a manner
prescribed by the Commissioner; and

      (2)   for all property owned by a not-for-profit organization if
such property was receiving City refuse collection services as of
January 1, 2016. Provided, however, that such not-for-profit
organization shall be required to have its refuse collected by a private
scavenger holding a valid license under Section 4-6-130 if: (A) such
not-for-profit organization has net assets or fund balances of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more at the end of the immediately
preceding tax year or calendar year; or (B) the property owned by such
not-for-profit organization either: (i) contains eleven or more garbage
carts for refuse collection, or (ii) is determined by the Commissioner
of Streets and Sanitation ("Commissioner") to require eleven or more
garbage carts in order to prevent refuse from: (a) overflowing the carts
provided, or (b) exceeding the capacity of the carts provided in a
manner that prevents the lids of the carts provided from being securely
fastened shut, or (c) creating other unsanitary conditions on the
property; or (C) such not-for-profit organization fails to file with the
Department of Finance a timely and completed application for an
exemption from water charges within the meaning of Section 11-12-540(d).
Provided further, that:

         (i)   The Commissioner shall provide the owner of any property
that is ineligible for City refuse collection services under subsection
(a)(2)(A), (a)(2)(B) or (a)(2)(C) of this section with written
notification of such fact, which notification shall provide the owner
with an opportunity to be heard by the Commissioner or the
Commissioner’s designee on the limited question of whether the
eligibility criteria for City refuse collection services have been met.
Following such written notification, the Commissioner shall cease
providing City refuse collection services to such property as of the
date certain identified in the written notification.

         (ii)   After written notification to the Commissioner, an owner
of any property that is eligible to receive City refuse collection
services under this subsection (a)(2) may choose to provide for refuse
collection by a private scavenger holding a valid license under Section
4-6-130.

   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this section,
the owner of any dwelling unit or property required to have City refuse
collection pursuant to this section shall be responsible for payment of
a refuse collection fee of $9.50 per month per dwelling unit or per
property for those properties subject to subsection (a)(2). The billing
of the refuse collection fee and penalties authorized by this section
shall be added to and separately recited upon a unified statement of
charges, as that term is defined in Section 11-12-010. The unified
statement of charges shall be prepared and sent to the billed party in
such time periods as established by the Comptroller and shall be subject
to Section 11-12-480.

   (c)   The refuse collection fee for a person 65 years or older who
(i) owns and resides in his own dwelling unit, and (ii) receives a
Senior Citizen Assessment Freeze Homestead Exemption for that dwelling
unit pursuant to 35 ILCS 200/15-172, shall be 50% of the refuse
collection fee set forth in subsection (b). The Comptroller is
authorized to promulgate rules for the administration of this
subsection, including any requirements for an application in a form and
format prescribed by the Comptroller.

   (d)   A late payment penalty assessed at a monthly rate of one and
one-quarter percent shall be imposed on all refuse collection fee for
which payment in full is not received within 24 calendar days from the
date the unified statement of charges was sent as shown by the records
of the Department of Finance. Where the correctness of a charge imposed
under this section is disputed and where complaint of such incorrectness
has been made prior to the time the usual penalty would be imposed, and
where the adjusting of such complaint requires additional time, the
penalty may be held in abeyance up to and including the tenth day
succeeding the resending of such bill.

   (e)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law or rule, a full payment
certificate for refuse collection charges is required in all transfers
of real property whether such transfers are subject to or exempt from
the real property transfer tax pursuant to Chapter 3-33 of this Code. In
order to obtain a full payment certificate for refuse collection
charges, an application with an application fee of $50.00 shall be made
to the Comptroller. Provided, however, if the property is exempt from
the real property transfer tax, the full payment certificate application
fee shall not be charged. If a full payment certificate was required and
such certificate was not obtained when the real property was
transferred, both the transferor and the transferee will be jointly and
severally liable for any outstanding refuse collection charges and
penalties that have accrued.

      (2)   Before control of a property subject to the Illinois
Condominium Property Act is transferred from the developer to the board
of managers, a certificate of payment for full payment of refuse
collection charges shall be obtained from the Comptroller upon
application and payment of an application fee of $50.00. Such
certificate of payment shall be obtained within 30 days prior to the
election of the first unit owner board of managers. The terms used in
this section shall have the same meanings as those in the Illinois
Condominium Property Act. Subsequent transfers of a unit within a
condominium building subject to this section require a certificate of
payment.

   Where a townhome or condominium association's assessments include the
individual owner's share of the refuse collection charge, the
Comptroller may issue a certificate of condo or townhome owner payment
upon application and payment of an application fee of $50.00.

(Added Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 12062, Art. IX, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
11-9-16, p. 36266, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. II, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11514, Art. X, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-20-22,
p. 50569, § 3)

7-28-240 Refuse removal.

   (a)   Multiple dwellings. Except for those dwelling units required to
have city refuse collection pursuant to section 7-28-235, it shall be
the duty of the owner, or agent thereof, of every multiple dwelling
containing 5 or more dwelling units to cause all refuse produced therein
to be removed from the buildings at least once each week at such owner's
or agent's own cost and expense.

   (b)   Occupational units. It shall be the duty of the occupant of
every occupational unit to cause all refuse produced therein to be
removed from the property at least once each week at such occupant's own
cost and expense.

(Prior code § 99-18; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J.
6-28-00, p. 36650, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-4-03, p. 7118, § 22; Amend
Coun. J. 12-7-05, p. 64870, § 1.3; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, §
158; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-15, p. 3535, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p.
12062, Art. IX, § 2)

7-28-250 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390, Art. XI, § 1, repealed §
7-28-250, which pertained to refuse collection cost and reimbursement.
Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390, Art. XI, § 2, provides: "Rebate requests
that were properly submitted and referred to the Committee on Finance
prior to February 1, 2016, pursuant to Section 7-28-250, are hereby
transferred for processing to the Comptroller, who is authorized to
process rebate requests in conformity with Section 7-28-250,
notwithstanding its repeal."

7-28-260 Containers – Use.

   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner, his agent or occupant of
every single dwelling, multiple dwelling producing less than 32 gallons
of refuse per week,]* or a multiple dwelling, occupational unit to cause
all refuse produced therein to be deposited in a refuse container or
compactor as provided in Section 7-28-220 or 7-28-225, and to keep a
tightly fitting cover in place at all times when refuse is contained
therein, except when opened for the deposit or removal of refuse. The
owner, his agent or occupant shall maintain the container so that all
refuse spilled during usage is removed and the area is cleaned in a
timely manner. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the owner,
his agent or occupant of the premises served by a refuse container to
deposit or cause to be deposited therein any article or thing
whatsoever.

* Editor's note – Bracket shown is as set forth in Coun. J. 7-7-99, p.
6985, an amending ordinance in which bracketed material was to be
deleted but no initial bracket was published.

   (b)   It shall be the duty of every person responsible for the
installation, use or emptying of a sanitary refuse container to keep a
tightly fitting cover in place at all times when refuse is contained
therein, except when opened for the deposit or removal of refuse.

   (c)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each use. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

(Prior code § 99-19; Amend Coun. J. 7-13-94, p. 53272; Amend Coun. J.
7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-261 Accumulation of refuse – Responsibility.

   (a)   No person shall deposit refuse in a standard or commercial
refuse container, or compactor, in a manner that prevents complete
closure of the container's cover, or deposit refuse on top of a
container in a manner that interferes with opening of the container, or
pile or stack refuse against a container.

   (b)   The owner, his agent or occupant of a property shall not allow
any person to violate subsection (a) of this section. The presence of
refuse preventing complete closure of the container's cover, deposited
on or piled or stacked against a standard refuse container, a commercial
refuse container, or compactor shall be prima facie evidence of
violation of this subsection (b).

   (c)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-13-94, p. 53272; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-270 Contents of standard and commercial refuse containers and
compactors.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any refuse
container or compactor any article or thing except refuse as defined in
this chapter.

(Prior code § 99-20; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-280 Removal of contents.

   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a city refuse
collector or a private scavenger licensed by the city, to remove,
displace, uncover, or otherwise disturb, any refuse container or the
contents thereof when placed on location, as provided for in Section
7-28-230.

(Prior code § 99-21)

7-28-290 Ashes.

   Ashes stored inside any non-fireproof building shall be stored only
in masonry bins, approved metal ash cans, or steel truck tanks. All ash
containers shall be kept at least five feet from combustible material.
Ashes shall not be stored inside or outside of any building in wood
receptacles, or dumped in contact or in proximity to any combustible
material.

(Prior code § 99-22)

7-28-300 Removal of restaurant garbage.

   Every person owning or controlling any hotel, restaurant, café, or
retail food establishment that uses a commercial refuse container shall
cause all substances deposited in such containers to be removed from his
premises on each day of operation. Such person shall cause the removal
and disposition of such substances in accordance with the provisions of
this Code and the rules or regulations of the department of health
relating to the disposition and removal of such substances.

(Prior code § 99-23; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-301 Grease containers.

   Every grease container shall be constructed of impervious material
and subject to the inspection of the department of health and the
department of streets and sanitation.

(Added Coun. J. 4-15-95, p. 67576; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend
Coun. J. 2-10-16, p. 18540, § 1)

7-28-302 Grease containers – Maintenance and removal.

   (a)   It shall be the duty of every person responsible for the use of
a grease container in which cooking grease or kindred refuse is stored,
to (1) keep a tightly fitting cover in place, except when opened for the
deposit or removal of its contents; and (2) remove spillage after every
use by applying a cleaning agent approved by the commissioner of the
department of streets and sanitation, and (3) contract with a licensed
scavenger for grease removal.

   (b)   It shall be the duty of every grease hauler responsible for the
collection of any grease container in which cooking grease or kindred
refuse is stored, to (1) provide a tightly fitting cover for the
container; (2) resecure the container cover if it is removed during
collection; and (3) remove any grease spilled during collection by
applying a cleaning agent approved by the commissioner of the department
of streets and sanitation.

   (c)   In accordance with Section 7-28-302(a)(2) and (b)(2), cooking
grease or kindred refuse spilled in the public way or open loading dock
shall be cleaned with an inorganic, inert material capable of absorbing
and neutralizing grease. Approved materials include, but are not limited
to, sand, clay, bentonite, sawdust, and combinations of these materials
sold as commercial absorbents.

   (d)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $250.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

(Added Coun. J. 4-15-95, p. 67576; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend
Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 4.4)

7-28-303 Location of grease containers.

   Individual hotels, cafes and retail food establishments generating
more than 1,500 pounds of cooking grease or kindred refuse per month
shall design space for and install sealed, odor and rodent resistant
vacuum containers for the storage of grease. Such containers shall be
indoors except when the department of streets and sanitation determines
there is no suitable indoor location. If there is no suitable indoor
location the grease must be contained in a suitable outdoor location on
the property. The commissioner of the department of streets and
sanitation shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
regarding the definition of suitable indoor location and outdoor
location.

(Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

Editor's note – The provisions of this section were effective July 7,
2000.

7-28-305 Location of grease containers on the public way.

   Grease containers may be placed on the public way in accordance with
Article XIB of Chapter 10-28 of this Code and shall be granted only if
the department of streets and sanitation determines that the premises
has no other suitable location for the container. The commissioner of
the department of streets and sanitation shall have the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations regarding the definition of suitable
location.

(Amend Coun. J. 7-7-99, p. 6985)

7-28-310 Owner of business responsible for removal when – Violation –
Penalty.

   Every person owning or operating any business establishment, other
than a bed-and-breakfast establishment licensed pursuant to Section
4-6-290 unless the department of streets and sanitation determines that
the bed-and-breakfast establishment is producing an unreasonable amount
of refuse for a building of its size, shall cause sufficient removal and
disposition of such refuse and discarded materials at his own expense
and in accordance with the provisions of this Code and the rules and
regulations of the department of health related to the removal and
disposition of such refuse and discarded materials unless they are part
of a multiple occupational unit where the building owner is required to
provide refuse service. Removal must be by licensed scavenger company.

   Any person found in violation of this section shall be guilty of
having created a nuisance and shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor
more than $500.00 for the first offense, and no less than $400.00 nor
more than $750.00 for the second and each subsequent offense. Each day
that such violation persists shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

(Prior code § 99-24; Added Coun. J. 12-20-89, p. 10135; Amend Coun. J.
7-7-99, p. 6985; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 4.5; Amend Coun. J.
9-4-03, p. 7118, § 23; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 160)

7-28-315 Removal of litter from a retail establishment's parking area.

   (a)   Every person owning, managing or controlling any retail
establishment with an adjacent parking area provided for customer use
shall cause to be removed at his own expense all litter located in the
parking area. It shall be the duty of the owner or manager to cause all
litter placed in the litter baskets to be deposited daily in the retail
establishment’s commercial refuse container for removal by a licensed
scavenger.

   (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager to provide and
maintain in good condition and repair litter baskets, sufficient in size
and number to prevent any overflow or accumulation of litter outside of
the containers. Litter baskets shall be placed at appropriate locations
throughout the parking areas so as not to constitute a nuisance to
adjacent properties or the occupants thereof.

   (c)   Unremoved litter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. It
shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation or a
designee to serve notice in writing by certified mail upon the owner or
manager where a nuisance may be found, requiring him to abate the
nuisance within three days from the date of receipt of notice. The
Commissioner may prescribe in his notice the manner in which any
nuisance shall be abated. If the owner or manager fails within three
days from the date of notice to abate the nuisance, or if the owner or
manager is unknown or cannot with due diligence be found, the
Commissioner may proceed to abate the nuisance or seek to enjoin the
nuisance. In addition to any fine or penalty, an amount equal to three
times the cost or expense incurred by the city in abating a nuisance may
be recovered in an appropriate action instituted by the Corporation
Counsel. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the City
of Chicago from acting without notice to abate a nuisance in an
emergency where the nuisance poses an immediate threat to public health
or safety, nor shall this section be construed to deny any common law
right to anyone to abate a nuisance.

   (d)   Any owner or other person found in violation of this section
shall be fined not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00 for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 5-2-01, p. 57399, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542,
Art. III, § 6)

7-28-320 Incinerators and ash chutes.

   Incinerators and ash chutes shall be constructed in conformity with
the building provisions of this Code.

(Prior code § 99-25)

7-28-330 Sale of garbage prohibited.

   No person shall vend or attempt to vend in the city any fruit,
vegetable, or other article of food that may be decayed or partially
rotten, or that may have been taken from any barrel, box, or other
receptacle for the same, in any public way of the city.

(Prior code § 99-26)

7-28-331 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-25-14, p. 82896, § 1, renumbered this section
as § 7-28-217.

7-28-340 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-340, which
pertained to containers for manure storage.

7-28-350 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed § 7-28-350, which
pertained to disposal of animal bedding.

7-28-360 Removal of refuse before vacation of premises.

   It shall be the duty of every person occupying or controlling any
lot, building, or structure, or any portion thereof, to remove or cause
to be removed therefrom, before vacating the same, all garbage, ashes,
miscellaneous waste and manure.

(Prior code § 99-29)

7-28-370 Disposal of furnishings, bedding, clothing or other materials
infested with bed bugs.

   (a)   No person shall place, discard or dispose of any bedding,
clothing or other materials infested with bed bugs on the public way or
in a refuse container or dumpster located on the public way, except when
such bedding, clothing or other material is placed in or near the
person's refuse container or dumpster for pick-up as trash and the
bedding, clothing or other material is totally enclosed in a plastic bag
and labeled as being infested with bed bugs.

   (b)   No furnishing, bedding, clothing or other material infested
with bed bugs shall be recycled.

   (c)   For purposes of this section, "bedding" has the same meaning
ascribed to that term in Section 7-28-810.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 4)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, § 7-28-370 becomes
effective on 12-2-13. Coun. J. 10-28-97, p. 54730, repealed a former §
7-28-370, which pertained to manure and garbage loaded on railroad cars.

7-28-380 Refuse vehicles.

   No person owning or controlling any vehicle used for the carrying or
transporting of any garbage, ashes, miscellaneous waste, or manure shall
cause or permit such vehicle when in use for such purpose to stand or
remain before or near any building, structure, or premises occupied by
any person; nor shall any person using any such vehicle cause or permit
the use of an unreasonable or unnecessary length of time in and about
the loading or unloading of any such vehicle when in use for such
purposes, or cause or permit an unreasonable or unnecessary length of
time to be used in passing along any public way; nor shall any person
cause or permit any such cart or vehicle to be in a condition needlessly
or unnecessarily filthy or offensive.

(Prior code § 99-31)

7-28-390 Dumping on public way – Violation – Penalty.

   (a)   No person owning or controlling any vehicle shall dump, deposit
or dispose, or cause, suffer, allow, or procure to be dumped, deposited
or disposed from that vehicle any ashes, refuse, or waste on the public
way.

   (b)   No person owning or controlling any refuse vehicle shall cause
or permit the vehicle to be so loaded, to be in such defective
condition, out of repair, of faulty construction, or improperly driven
or managed to permit any ashes, refuse, or waste to drop or fall on any
public way or other place. The vehicle shall be constructed to prevent
the emission of any odor and to prevent any part of the contents from
falling, leaking, or spilling therefrom. It shall be the duty of every
person in possession or control of any such vehicle to remove from the
public way or any other place, any part of the contents of the vehicle
which fell, dropped, or spilled onto the ground from the vehicle.

   (c)   For purposes of this section "ashes", "dispose", "refuse" and
"waste" shall have the meaning ascribed to those terms in Section
11-4-120.

   (d)   Penalties imposed for violations of this section shall be as
provided in Section 11-4-1600.

(Prior code § 99-31.1; Added Coun. J. 12-21-88, p. 23493; Amend 7-31-90,
p. 19384; Amend Coun. J. 11-3-04, p. 34974, § 2)

7-28-395 Construction debris on public way prohibited.

   Any person who constructs, demolishes, renovates, remodels, excavates
or otherwise performs any maintenance operation on private property
shall not allow any debris generated by that operation to accumulate on
any adjacent public way and shall remove all debris from the public way
at least once a day. Such person shall transport, remove and dispose of
the debris in conformity with the requirements of this code and in a
manner that does not cause any debris to be washed, drained, discarded
or otherwise allowed to flow into the city sewer system. If the public
way is damaged during the removal process, such person shall restore the
public way to the condition that it was in before the damage occurred or
shall pay the city in full for any costs and expenses which the city
incurs in connection with the performance of that work.

   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than
$350.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

   This section may be enforced by the department of streets and
sanitation, the department of health, and the department of
transportation.

   As used in this section:

   "Debris" means any dirt, rock, sand, construction or demolition
waste, landscape waste, chipped paint, rubbish, rubble, garbage, trash,
chemical residue, or any other miscellaneous material or substance
generated by the construction, demolition, renovation, remodeling,
excavation or performance of any other maintenance operation on private
property. "Debris" does not include any item or material placed on the
public way in compliance with a valid permit issued by the department of
transportation.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-01, p. 60214, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. II, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 10-27-21, p. 40504, Art. II, § 2)

7-28-400 Disinfection of refuse vehicles.

   Any person owning or controlling any refuse vehicle shall cause all
such vehicles, and all implements used in connection with the loading or
unloading thereof, when not in use, to be stored and kept in such place
and in such manner as not to create a nuisance, and shall cause all such
vehicles and implements to be thoroughly disinfected and put in an
inoffensive condition when so stored or not in use. Such vehicles and
implements shall be thoroughly disinfected at least once a week, whether
in use or not, unless the same shall not have been used since the last
disinfection thereof.

(Prior code § 99-32)

7-28-410 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 11-3-04, p. 34974, § 2, repealed § 7-28-410,
which pertained to dropping refuse from vehicle.

7-28-420 Industrial refuse.

   The owner, lessee, occupant, or manager of every chemical factory,
paint factory, blacksmith or other shop, forge, coalyard, brickyard or
place where bricks are manufactured, foundry or manufactory or premises
where like business is done, or any factory or premises in which tar or
any compound thereof is handled, used, or manufactured, shall cause all
ashes, cinders, rubbish, dirt, and refuse to be removed to some proper
place, so that the same shall not accumulate at any of the above-
mentioned premises, or in the appurtenances thereof, and become filthy
and offensive; nor shall any such owner, lessee, occupant, or manager
cause or allow any dense smoke, cinders, dust, gas, or offensive odor to
escape from any such building, structure, place, or premises which shall
be offensive or prejudicial to the health or dangerous to the life of
any person not being therein or thereupon engaged. It is hereby declared
to be a nuisance to permit any ashes, cinders, rubbish, dirt, or refuse
to accumulate on any of the above-mentioned premises, or the
appurtenances thereof, and become filthy or offensive, or to cause or
allow any dense smoke, cinders, dust, gas, or offensive odor to escape
from any such building, structure, place, or premises, and the
commissioner of buildings or any officer designated by him may summarily
abate the same.

(Prior code § 99-34)

7-28-430 Decaying animal matter.

   It shall be unlawful for any person having the ownership or control
of any animal matter within the city which is in process of decay so as
to be offensive or dangerous to the public health to permit the same to
remain within the city or within one mile of the limits thereof, while
in such condition, more than 12 hours after such animal matter shall
have come into such offensive or dangerous condition, whether it be at
an establishment for the rendering or changing the character thereof or
not. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50.00 and not more than $200.00 for each offense, and
every day on which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 99-35)

7-28-440 Dumping on real estate without permit – Nuisance – Violation –
Penalty – Recovery of costs.

   (a)   No person shall dump, deposit, or dispose, or cause, suffer,
allow, or procure to be dumped, deposited, or disposed on any lot or
parcel of real estate within the city any ashes, refuse, or waste,
except at a sanitary landfill site, liquid waste handling facility or
transfer station for which a permit has been properly issued pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 11-4 of this Code. For purposes of this
section "ashes", "dispose", "refuse" and "waste" shall have the meaning
ascribed to those terms in Section 11-4-120. Such dumping without a
permit is hereby declared to be a nuisance.

   (b)   Penalties imposed for violations of this section shall be as
provided in Section 11-4-1600.

(Prior code § 99-36; Amend Coun. J. 10-15-87, p. 5194; Amend Coun. J.
7-31-90, p. 19384; Amend Coun. J. 6-12-91, p. 1459; Amend Coun. J.
10-14-92, p. 21818; Amend Coun. J. 7-14-93, p. 35530; Amend Coun. J.
6-14-95, p. 2990; Amend Coun. J. 3-6-96, p. 17618; Amend Coun. J.
7-29-03, p. 5530, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-3-04, p. 34974, § 2)

7-28-445 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-20-19, p. 9510, Art. IV, § 21, repealed §
7-28-445, which expired on July 1, 2015 and pertained to a pilot program
establishing a reward for information leading to a conviction or finding
of liability for illegal dumping.

7-28-450 Unremoved motor vehicles, ashes, refuse, waste, debris and
other materials – Owner responsible for removal – Nuisance – Violation –
Penalty.

   a.   Lot in ill-maintained condition — Unremoved ashes, refuse, waste
or other debris. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7-28-720, the
owner, as defined in Section 7-28-005, of any business or residence or
lot or tax parcel of real estate, whether improved or unimproved, vacant
or occupied, shall remove or cause to be removed from such property any
abandoned or derelict motor vehicle as defined in Section 9-80-110;
garbage; ashes; refuse; trash; rubbish; waste; manure; or other
substance or material that may contain disease or germs, or be scattered
by the wind, or decompose, or become noxious or unhealthful or otherwise
threaten the public health, safety or welfare. Unremoved material of
such nature is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any owner or
other person found in violation of this section shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $750.00 nor more than $5,000.00 for each offense.
Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply.

   Provided, however, that the requirements of this subsection shall not
apply to governmental entities or to persons upon whose property such
material is permitted to accumulate pursuant to a valid and properly
issued license or permit or if allowed under provisions of the Zoning
Code governing special uses in general and heavy manufacturing
districts.

      b.   Unremoved material or debris under railroad tracks. The
owner, as defined in Section 7-28-005, of any railroad track which lies
upon any overpass, bridge, trestle, viaduct, tunnel or other elevated
railroad passageway shall maintain the area immediately beneath the
overpass, bridge, trestle, viaduct, tunnel or other elevated railroad
passageway clear of any track materials, including any rail, ties or
ballast, and any debris which has fallen to the ground from the track or
elevated passageway structure, including any rocks, concrete, stone,
wood or metal. Unremoved material or debris of such nature is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. Any person found in violation of this
section shall be punished by a penalty of not less than $500.00 and not
more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day on which such an offense
shall continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. This
subsection shall not apply to the Chicago Transit Authority.

   c.   For purposes of this section, the terms "ashes", "dispose",
"refuse", "garbage" and "waste" shall have the meaning ascribed to those
terms in Section 11-4-120.

(Prior code § 99-36.1; Amend Coun. J. 12-18-86, p. 38654; 3-9-88, p.
11146; 7-31-90, p. 19384; 12-11-91, p. 10978; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p.
66564; Amend Coun. J. 1-12-00, p. 24174, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-3-04, p.
34974, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-19-07, p. 4396, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
7-28-10, p. 97912, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 56894, § 1)

7-28-455 Unremoved motor vehicles, ashes, refuse, waste, debris and
other materials – Substantial risk to the public – Nuisance – City
authorized to remove – Notice – Violation – Penalty – Costs.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:

   "Commissioner" means the commissioner of streets and sanitation or
the commissioner of health or their respective designees.

   "Owner" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Chapter 14A-2.

   "Property" means any lot, tax parcel of real estate, railroad track,
residence, place of business or any portion thereof, whether improved,
unimproved, vacant or occupied.

   "Substantial risk" means any violation of Section 7-28-450 which, due
to its nature, size, scope, reoccurrence or lack of remediation by the
owner, poses a serious or ongoing threat to the environment or to the
public health, comfort, safety or welfare of any person or of the
community. The term "substantial risk" includes any serious threat that
is present now or is expected to occur within a reasonably short period
of time, even though the impact of the threat may not be felt until
later.

   (b)   Violations of Section 7-28-450 that pose a substantial risk to
the public – Nuisance – Notice – City authorized to abate – Penalty –
Costs. Any violation of Section 7-28-450 that poses a substantial risk
to the environment or to the public health, comfort, safety or welfare
of any person or of the community shall be a violation under this
section and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Such public
nuisance shall be subject to the notice and abatement provisions set
forth in this section. Any person who violates any of the requirements
of this subsection shall be subject to twice the amount of the fine that
applies for violations of subsections (a) or (b) of Section 7-28-450, as
applicable. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply.

   In addition to such fine, any person who violates this subsection
shall be liable to the city for any and all costs and expenses incurred
by the city in abating a nuisance under this section, plus a penalty of
up to three times the amount of the costs and expenses incurred by the
city in abating such nuisance. Such monies may be recovered in an
appropriate action instituted by the corporation counsel or in a
proceeding initiated by the department of streets and sanitation or the
department of health at the department of administrative hearings. The
penalties imposed by this subsection shall be in addition to any other
penalty provided by law.

   (c)   Notice to abate. If the commissioner determines that any
violation of Section 7-28-450 poses a substantial risk to the
environment or to the public health, comfort or safety of any person or
of the community, the commissioner shall serve notice, in writing, upon
the owner of the property on which such nuisance is occurring ordering
such owner to abate the nuisance under this section by the date certain
set forth in such notice or order and in the manner the commissioner may
prescribe. If such owner fails to abate the nuisance under this section
by the date certain set forth in such notice or order and in the manner
the commissioner may prescribe or if the owner is unknown or cannot with
due diligence be found, the applicable commissioner may proceed to abate
the nuisance or seek to enjoin the nuisance.

   If a motor vehicle is the nuisance or a part of the nuisance, the
commissioner shall serve notice, in writing, upon the last registered
owner of the vehicle or owner of the lot where the vehicle is located
ordering such owner to remove the vehicle by the date certain set forth
the notice and informing such owner that if the vehicle is not removed
by the date certain set forth in the notice or order, the commissioner
is authorized to and may cause the vehicle to be removed and impounded.

   The notice or order required under this subsection shall be served on
the owner, with or without a return receipt requested, (i) by first
class mail or express mail or priority mail or certified mail or
registered mail or by overnight carrier or express courier service at
the owner's residence address or, if the owner is a business entity, at
any mailing address identified for its registered agent or at its
principal place of business; or (ii) by personal service, including
personal service upon an employee or agent of the owner at a place of
business of the owner or otherwise if such service is reasonably
calculated to give the owner actual notice; or (iii) if service cannot
be made by either of (i) or (ii) above, by posting a copy of the order
or notice on the front entrance of the building or other structure where
the violation is found, or if the property is unimproved or fenced off,
by posting a copy of the order or notice in a prominent place upon the
property where the violation is found.

   (d)   Emergency abatement. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prevent the city from acting without notice to abate a nuisance under
this section, where such nuisance poses an imminent threat to the public
health, safety or welfare or in the event of any other emergency. If
emergency abatement under this section is required, the city may recover
under Section 1-20-020 any and all costs associated with such emergency
abatement.

   (e)   Other requirements. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to deny to any person any statutory or common law right to abate a
nuisance or to prevent the city from seeking any or all remedies that
may be provided by law.

(Added Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 2-9-11, p.
112123, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 6; Amend
Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 87)

7-28-460 Substances that scatter in wind.

   No lime, ashes, coal, dry sand, hair, feathers, or other substance
that may be scattered by the wind, shall be sifted through a sieve,
agitated, or exposed. No mat, carpet, or cloth shall be shaken or
beaten, nor any cloth, yarn, garment, material, or substance be scoured,
cleaned, or hung, nor shall any business be conducted over or in any
public way, or where particles set in motion therefrom will pass into
any public way, or into any occupied premises. No usual or reasonable
precaution shall be omitted by any person to prevent fragments or other
substances from falling, or dust and light material from flying, into
any public way or into any place or building from any building or
structure while the same is being altered, repaired, or demolished. Any
person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $300.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that
such a violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense.

(Prior code § 99-38; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-00, p. 46866, § 1)

7-28-470 Refuse on roof or in areaway.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, deposit, or
cause to be placed, thrown, or deposited, any substance, papers, refuse,
or other article, or any material, on the roof of any building, or in
any light or air shaft, court, or areaway that will cause the
dissemination of dust or odors, or be productive of a nuisance or a
menace to the health, comfort, or safety of any person or of the
community. No person in possession or control of any building shall
permit or allow the deposit or accumulation on the roof of said building
or in any light or air shaft, court, or areaway, of any waste material,
refuse, or other object or thing that will cause a nuisance or be
injurious to the health, comfort, or safety of any person or of the
community.

(Prior code § 99-39)

7-28-480 Inspection of roofs and areaways.

   It shall be the duty of the commissioner of buildings or his
authorized representative to make inspections at least twice each year
of the roofs, light and air shafts, courts, and areaways of all
buildings where he has reason to believe a nuisance exists or any of the
regulations of this Code are being violated. It shall be the duty of the
person in possession or control of any such building to allow the
commissioner of buildings or his authorized representative entrance or
access, at all reasonable times, to such building for the purpose of
inspection or for the making of such records as may be necessary.

(Prior code § 99-40)

7-28-490 Roofers.

   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in or conducting in the
city the business of roofing of buildings, to throw dirt or roofing
refuse from the roof of any building upon any public way or upon
adjoining property while repairing or renewing roofs.

(Prior code § 99-41)

7-28-500 Removal of roofing refuse.

   Every person engaged in or conducting in the city the business of
roofing of buildings, shall remove the dirt and roofing refuse from the
roofs by lowering it in buckets or containers, or with ropes, pulleys,
or other mechanical devices while repairing or renewing roofs.

(Prior code § 99-42)

7-28-510 Objects that may damage tires – Illegal to dump on public way.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, dump or deposit upon
any public way any glass article, broken glass, nails, tacks, sharp
metal objects or other articles or material that may cause damage to
rubber tires of motor vehicles. It shall be the duty of every owner or
person in possession or control of any motor vehicle, the glass or metal
parts from which are broken and dropped upon any public way, to promptly
remove such broken glass and metal parts and restore the public way to a
condition safe for automotive traffic.

(Prior code § 99-42.1)

7-28-511 Definitions.

   As used in Sections 7-28-511 through 7-28-519, the following terms
and phrases shall be understood as having the following meanings:

   A.   "Animal waste" means waste such as body parts, carcasses and
bedding of animals that were exposed to infectious agents during
research, production of biologicals, or testing of pharmaceuticals.

   B.   "Biologicals" means, but is not limited to secretions,
suctionings, excretions, exudates, and other body fluids which cannot be
directly discarded into a municipal sewer system.

   C.   "Blood" means human or animal blood and blood products,
including but not limited to plasma, serum and material containing free
flowing blood and blood components.

   D.   "Board" means the Chicago Board of Health appointed by the mayor
of the City of Chicago.

   E.   "Commissioner" means the commissioner of the department of
health of the City of Chicago.

   F.   "Department" means the department of health of the City of
Chicago.

   G.   "Facility" means any site that produces, stores, treats,
transports, hauls or disposes of infectious waste.

   H.   "Infectious agent" means an organism that is capable of
producing infection or infectious disease.

   I.   "Infectious waste" means waste produced in connection with human
or animal patient care and materials generated as a result of patient
diagnosis, treatment, immunization, or the preparation of human remains
for cremation or burial, that is contaminated with or may be
contaminated with an infectious agent, and includes laboratory waste,
pathological waste, isolation waste, blood, regulated fluids, sharps and
animal waste. "Infectious waste" shall not include general refuse, such
as food products and containers, packaging materials, and materials that
are not used in connection with patient care.

   J.   "Isolation waste" means all waste from the care or treatment of
patients who are isolated to prevent the spread of communicable diseases
except reverse protection isolation.

   K.   "Laboratory waste" means cultures and stocks of infectious
agents and associated biologicals including: human and animal cultures
from medical and/or pathological laboratories; cultures and stocks of
infectious agents from research, commercial or industrial laboratories;
waste from the production of biologicals; discarded live and attenuated
vaccines; culture dishes and other devices used to transfer, inoculate
and mix cultures; and specimens of regulated body fluid.

   L.   "Pathological waste" means human tissues, body parts and body
organs that are removed during surgery and autopsy or other medical
procedures.

   M.   "Person" means any individual, partnership, company,
corporation, association, firm, organization, trust or other legal
entity, including any city, county, district, state or federal
department or agency, located within the corporate limits of the City of
Chicago.

   N.   "Producer" means a person whose business or professional
activities produce or generate infectious waste, including but not
limited to medical facilities; laboratories; clinics; blood banks,
whether mobile or freestanding; doctor's, dentist's or veterinarian's
offices, or buildings; freestanding dialysis centers; nursing homes;
extended care facilities; health maintenance organizations not located
exclusively within a licensed hospital; and funeral homes and
crematoriums. When more than one person (as defined in subsection M of
this section) is located in the same building, each individual business
entity is a separate producer under this ordinance.

   "Producer" does not include persons who produce infectious waste
during self-treatment and family members, physicians or individuals
associated with a visiting or home care service or organization, who
administer or direct health care in a person's residence. "Producer"
specifically does not include any licensed hospital facility located
within the City of Chicago that is presently regulated by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act for the disposal of hospital wastes.

   O.   "Regulated body fluids" means cerebrospinal fluids, synovial
fluids, pleunal fluids, peritoneal fluids, pericardial fluids and
amniotic fluids.

   P.   "Sharps" means any discarded article used in animal care,
patient care or medical, industrial or research laboratories, that may
cause punctures or cuts. Sharps include hypodermic needles, tubings with
needles attached, scalpel blades, syringes (with or without the attached
needle), pasteur pipettes, blood vials, culture dishes that have been
removed from their original sterile containers, and broken or unbroken
glassware that has been in contact with infectious agents, such as used
slides.

   Q.   "Treatment" means a method, technique or process to treat
infectious waste so as to render such waste innocuous, as authorized
under Sections 7-28-511 through 7-28-519 and all applicable state and
federal laws.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-512 Application.

   All persons regulated herein shall comply with the provisions of this
ordinance, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, all other
provisions of the City of Chicago Municipal Code applicable to medical
wastes and all applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations.
Any licensed hospital facility located within the City of Chicago and
presently regulated under the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and
its applicable rules and regulations pertaining to hospital waste and
disposal is specifically excluded from the application of this
ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-513 Waste management.

   A.   Segregation. All producers of infectious waste must segregate
such waste as a separate waste stream from point of origin to transfer
to a licensed hauler or disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 7-28-511 through 7-28-519. All licensed haulers of infectious
waste must package, contain, store, transport and dispose of in a manner
that shall prevent any uncontrolled release of the waste materials.

   B.   Containment.

      (1)   Except as is otherwise provided in subdivision (3) of this
subsection relating to the containment of sharps, infectious waste shall
be contained and placed in disposable plastic bags which are impervious
to moisture and of strength sufficient to preclude tearing, ripping or
bursting under normal conditions of usage and handling. The bags shall
be securely tied to prevent leakage or expulsion of waste during
storage, handling and transport.

      (2)   All bags used for the containment of infectious waste shall
be in red in color and clearly labeled by the producer with the standard
international biohazard symbol or with the words "Infectious Waste".

      (3)   All sharps shall be contained in rigid, puncture-resistant
containers which are taped closed or tightly enclosed to prevent loss of
the contents. Rigid containers of sharp waste shall be red in color,
clearly labeled by the producer with the international biohazard symbol
or with the words "Infectious Waste", and placed, fully secured, in the
labeled disposable bags used for other infectious waste.

   C.   Storage.

      (1)   All infectious waste shall be placed for storage or handling
in pails, cartons, drums, dumpsters or portable bins used exclusively
for the storage of such waste. Such a containment system shall be
leakproof, have tight-fitting locked covers and be kept clean and in
good repair at all times. Containers used for such storage shall be
prominently labeled with either the standard international biohazard
symbol or with the words "Infectious Waste" on the lids or sides so as
to be readily visible.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-514 Treatment of infectious waste.

   All infectious waste shall be treated and disposed of in compliance
with all statutory rules and regulations applicable to the disposal of
hospital waste pursuant to the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and
its implementing regulations.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-515 Transportation.

   A.   A producer of infectious waste shall arrange for removal of its
infectious waste with a hauler or transporter for off-site disposal who
holds a special waste hauling permit issued by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, under its regulations Title 35,
Subtitle G., Ch. 1, Subch. h, Part 809, et seq.

   B.   No person other than a hauler or transporter holding a special
waste hauling permit shall transport infectious waste off-site;
provided, however, that a licensed physician or nurse may personally
transport off-site medical waste not to exceed a total of six pounds to
an approved infectious waste treatment or storage facility within the
City of Chicago or county of Cook provided that all infectious medical
waste is properly contained and identified while in transport and that
such transport shall be completed within 12 hours from the time the
waste was generated.

   C.   No person except a physician or nurse as noted in subsection B
shall transport infectious waste to any off-site facility for storage,
treatment or disposal in any vehicle that does not display a
registration number and seal as required by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act and applicable Illinois law and statutes.

   D.   Each vehicle except vehicles used by a physician or nurse as
noted in subsection B shall comply with the regulations adopted by the
Illinois Department of Transportation, the United States Department of
Transportation or the United States Environmental Protection Agency,
whichever has jurisdiction, if applicable.

   E.   Each vehicle, except vehicles used by a physician or nurse as
noted in subsection B, used to transport infectious waste off-site for
storage, treatment or disposal shall be labeled, marked and shall
display placards or the standard biohazard symbols indicating that
infectious medical waste is contained in the vehicle. This
identification is for informational purposes only, and does not
constitute an independently enforceable regulation with respect to
labeling, marking and placarding requirements.

   The commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations for the
implementation and enforcement of these requirements.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-516 Management plan.

   A.   Every person who generates or produces infectious medical waste
shall prepare and maintain an infectious waste plan on file at its
facility.

   B.   Every person who transports, stores, hauls or disposes of
infectious medical waste shall prepare and maintain an infectious waste
plan on file at all of the facilities.

   C.   These plans shall be made available to the commissioner or a
person authorized by the commissioner, at the time of any inspection of
the facility, or upon notice and demand.

   The commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations for the
implementation and enforcement of this program.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-517 Responsibilities and enforcement authority.

   A.   Rulemaking Authority. The commissioner, in conjunction with the
board, shall adopt rules and regulations necessary for the
administration of this ordinance.

   B.   Regulatory Authority. When evidence of an alleged violation of
any provision of this ordinance is presented to the commissioner, the
commissioner, or any employee authorized by the commissioner shall serve
upon the facility a written notice, informing the person(s) of the
alleged violation(s). The owner or operator of the facility shall
contact the department for an inspection of the site within five working
days of the receipt of such notice of violation. Failure to do so will
result in an inspection of the facility at a time and date determined by
the department.

   C.   Inspection. At any time of any inspection, and the presentation
of credentials, the inspector may:

      (1)   Enter upon the property or facility, public or private, for
the purpose of taking any action authorized by this ordinance, including
obtaining information and conducting investigations; and

      (2)   Examine all documents related to compliance with this
section subject to the Medical Practice Act or court order.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461; Corrected. 11-28-90, p. 26324)

7-28-518 Penalties.

   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance or its
rules and regulations, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for the first offense, not less than
$1,000.00 nor more than $2,000.00 for the second offense, and not less
than $2,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00 for a third or any subsequent
offense.

   B.   In the event infectious waste is found which has been disposed
of in violation of this ordinance, the department of health shall take
or direct all action necessary to insure proper disposal of such waste.
Any person responsible for such improper disposal shall, in addition to
the penalties specified above, be required to pay any and all costs
incurred by the city to dispose of such waste.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461; Amend Coun. J. 12-11-91, p. 10978;
Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 6)

7-28-519 Severability.

   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of
this ordinance or application thereof to any person or circumstance
shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances, but shall be
confined in its operation to the provision, clause, sentence, paragraph,
section or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which
said judgment shall have been rendered and to the person or circumstance
involved. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the city
council that the ordinance would have been adopted had not such invalid
provision or provisions been included.

(Added Coun. J. 9-12-90, p. 20461)

7-28-520 Additional penalty for violation of article.

   In addition to other penalties cited in this chapter, if any person
or business performing work under contract with the city is found guilty
of violating the provisions of Sections 7-28-200 through 7-28-519
inclusive, the city may terminate the contract by giving written notice
of the termination to the person or business. The contract shall be null
and void upon delivery of such notice.

(Prior code § 99-42.2; Added Coun. J. 7-29-86, p. 32488; Amended during
Supplement No. 2, 4-91; Amend Coun. J. 3-6-96, 17618)

ARTICLE III. RESERVED (7-28-530 et seq.)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed
Article III, which pertained to privies, catchbasins, and similar
vaults.

7-28-530 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-530, which pertained to construction of vaults.

7-28-540 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-540, which pertained to location of privy vault.

7-28-550 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-550, which pertained to distance from other buildings.

7-28-560 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-560, which pertained to vault contents.

7-28-570 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-570, which pertained to offensive privies and catchbasins.

7-28-580 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 7, repealed §
7-28-580, which pertained to the removal of vault contents.

7-28-590 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-590, which pertained to drawing off contents.

7-28-600 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 7, repealed §
7-28-600, which pertained to vehicles for removal of vault contents.

7-28-610 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-610, which pertained to workmen's temporary closets.

7-28-620 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-14-21, p. 37722, Art. XIV, § 13, repealed §
7-28-620, which pertained to chemical closets.

ARTICLE IV. OFFENSIVE CHEMICALS AND SUBSTANCES (7-28-630 et seq.)

7-28-630 Possession and sale – Violation – Penalty.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, or for
any person to carry about, any corrosive or caustic acid, including but
not limited to sulfuric acid, phosphorus, or any solution or mixture
thereof, or any hydrogen sulfide, valerianic acid, ammonium valerianate,
valerianate of zinc, or any other nauseous, offensive, or filthy
substance of like or similar nature; provided, that this provision shall
not apply to manufacturing and wholesale druggists, retail druggists,
physicians, chemists, regularly established laboratories, or to persons
who have procured any of said substances for medicinal purposes upon a
prescription of a physician regularly licensed under the laws of the
state.

   No person shall sell, give away, or offer to sell or give away, or
have in his possession any stink ball or fire ball, or any bomb, ball
tube, vial, or bottle made of thin glass or other easily breakable
material containing any of the above-mentioned substances.

   Any violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $500.00 nor more than $1,500.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 99-53; Amend Coun. J. 11-10-10, p. 105160, § 2)

7-28-631 Corrosive or caustic acid registry.

   Restrictions on purchase, receipt, or acquisition of any corrosive or
caustic acid.

   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, any
person wishing to purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire any corrosive
or caustic acid, including but not limited to sulfuric acid, shall,
prior to taking possession:

      (1)   provide a driver's license or other government-issued
identification showing the person's name, date of birth, and photograph;
and

      (2)   sign a log documenting the name and address of the person,
date and time of the transaction, and brand and product name and total
quantity distributed of any corrosive or caustic acid, including but not
limited to sulfuric acid.

   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, no person
shall knowingly purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire more than one
package from a retail location in a 24-hour period.

   (c)   This section shall not apply to manufacturing and wholesale
druggists, retail druggists, physicians, chemists, regularly established
laboratories, or to persons who have procured any of said substances for
medicinal purposes upon a prescription of a physician regularly licensed
under the laws of the state.

   The Commissioner of the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer
Protection shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations
for the implementation and enforcement of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 11-10-10, p. 105160, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p.
38872, § 144)

7-28-635 Sale of mercury thermometers containing mercury substance.

   No person shall knowingly sell, give away, or offer to sell or give
away any mercury fever thermometer, including online retail, to
consumers and patients, except by prescription. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to manufacture a mercury thermometer in the
City.

   Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $50.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-01, p. 64934, § 1)

7-28-637 BPA-free kids ordinance.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:

   "Bisphenol A" shall mean the chemical produced in large quantities
for use primarily in the production of polycarbonate plastic and epoxy
resins with the chemical structure of C15 H16 O2.

   "Container" shall mean any empty bottle or cup that is specifically
designed to be filled with food or liquid to be used primarily by a
child under the age of three (3).

   (b)   Limitations on Bisphenol A content. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer or expose for sale, give
or furnish any container that is composed of Bisphenol A that is sold or
distributed without containing any liquid, food, or beverage; and

   (c)   Notice – Required. Any retailer shall post a sign in the store
that clearly and conspicuously notifies customers that containers
offered for sale in the store are not composed of Bisphenol A. The
department of business affairs and consumer protection shall promulgate
rules and regulations in order to enforce this subsection.

   (d)   Violation. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00 for
the first offense, and not less than $300.00 nor more than $500.00 for
the second and each subsequent offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. In addition
to such fines, the permit, license or certificate of operation of such
person may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of
this Code.

   (e)   Enforcement. The department of business affairs and consumer
protection shall enforce this section. The department is also authorized
to adopt rules and regulations for the proper administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this section. The department of public
health shall have the authority to enforce this section.

   (f)   Severability. If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph,
section or part of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstance, shall for any reason be adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not
affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this chapter and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, but
shall be confined in its operation to the provision, clause, sentence,
paragraph, section, or part thereof already involved in the controversy
in which such judgment has been rendered and to the person and
circumstances affected thereby.

(Added Coun. J. 5-13-09, p. 62794, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. II, § 6)

7-28-639 Gel fuel – Prohibition on sale.

   (a)   As used in this section, the term "gel fuel" shall mean any
semi-solid, pourable gelatinous material containing ethyl alcohol
manufactured for use in firepots, fire pits, fireplaces, tiki torches
and other similar products.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer or expose
for sale, give or furnish any gel fuel within the City of Chicago.

   (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, gel
fuel manufactured for food warming purposes shall not be subject to the
limitations set forth herein.

   (d)   Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
$100.00 nor more than $300.00 for the first offense, and not less than
$300.00 nor more than $500.00 for the second and each subsequent
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7954, § 2)

7-28-640 Prescription required – Violation – Penalty.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away any
corrosive or caustic acid or any phosphorus or solution thereof, or any
hydrogen sulphide, valerianic acid, ammonium valerianate, valerianate of
zinc, or any solution or mixture of said substances, or any other
nauseous, offensive, or filthy substances of like or similar nature,
except upon the written prescription of a physician licensed under the
laws of the state, which prescription shall be filled only once and
shall have written upon it the name and address of the patient. This
section shall not apply to sales at wholesale by manufacturing or
wholesale druggists to retail druggists, physicians, or chemists.

   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than $50.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 99-54)

7-28-650 Offensive bombs in public places – Violation – Penalty.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, throw, deposit, or place
any stink ball, fire ball, or bomb, described in Section 7-28-630
hereof, or to cast, deposit or place any substance described in Section
7-28-640 hereof, from, upon, or to any public way or public place in the
city, or at, upon, or within any public conveyance, or upon the floor or
within any restaurant, theater, hall, assembly room or public building,
or at, upon, or within any automobile or other vehicle within the city.

   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than $50.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 99-55)

ARTICLE V. RAT CONTROL (7-28-660 et seq.)

7-28-660 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 1-21-15, p. 102083, § 2, repealed § 7-28-660,
which pertained to rat-stoppage.

7-28-670 Inspection notice.

   Inspectors from the department of buildings and the department of
streets and sanitation shall have authority to inspect the interior and
exterior of buildings, other structures, or parcels on which a building
has been demolished or is being constructed to determine evidence of rat
harborage, rat infestation and the existence of new breaks or leaks in
the rat-stoppage, and when any evidence is found indicating the presence
of rats or openings through which rats may enter such buildings or
structures, to report such evidence to the appropriate commissioner, who
shall serve the owner, agent, or occupant of such building, structure
or, parcel with written notice to abate the conditions found.

(Prior code § 99-61.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-94, p. 61204; Amend Coun. J.
5-20-98, p. 68997)

7-28-680 Maintenance.

   The owner, agent, or occupant in charge of all rat-stopped buildings
or structures shall maintain them in a rat-stopped condition and repair
all breaks or leaks that may occur in the rat-stoppage.

(Prior code § 99-61.4)

7-28-690 Unlawful to remove rat-stoppage.

   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, contractor, public
utility company, plumber, or any other person, to remove the
rat-stoppage from any building or structure for any purpose and fail to
restore the same in satisfactory condition, or to make any new openings
that are not closed or sealed against the entrance of rats.

(Prior code § 99-61.5)

7-28-700 Structural changes.

   Whenever conditions inside or under any building or structure provide
such extensive harborage for rats that the building commissioner deems
it necessary to eliminate such harborage he may require the owner or
occupant in charge of any such building or structure to install suitable
cement floors in basements, or to require such owner or occupant to
correct such rat harborage as may be necessary in order to facilitate
the eradication of rats.

(Prior code § 99-61.6)

7-28-710 Dumping prohibited.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump, or
permit to accumulate any garbage or trash in any building, structure or
premises so that the same shall afford food or harborage for rats, or to
dump or place on any premises, land or waterway any dead animals or
waste vegetable matter of any kind.

   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $600 for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a
separate fine shall apply.

   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the composting of
organic waste or land application of composted organic waste in
accordance with Sections 7-28-715 and Chapter 11-4 of this Code. For the
purposes of this section and Section 7-28-715, the following definitions
apply:

   "Commissioner" means the commissioner of streets and sanitation or
the commissioner of health. When used in the plural, the term means both
commissioners.

   "Compost" means the humus-like product of the process of composting
organic waste, which may be used as a soil conditioner.

   "Composting" means a controlled biological treatment process by which
microorganisms or worms decompose the organic fraction of waste,
producing compost.

   "Composting material" means organic waste undergoing composting.

   "Composting operation" means all composting activities conducted on a
site, including all composting material, stored organic waste and
end-product compost located on any site at any one time.

   "Food scrap" means garbage that is (i) capable of being composted,
(ii) separated by the generator from other waste, including
non-compostable garbage; and (iii) managed separately from other waste,
including non-compostable garbage. Food scrap includes packaging,
utensils, and food containers composed of readily biodegradable material
in accordance with the ASTM D6400 standard required for use under
Section 3.197 of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, codified at
415 ILCS 5/3.197. For purposes of this definition, the term "garbage"
has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section 11-4-120 of this Code.

   "In-vessel" means composting which is conducted entirely within a
fully enclosed container, with no opening having a dimension greater
than 1/4 inch in any direction.

   "Landscape waste" means grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as a result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees, and includes any discarded fruits,
vegetables and other vegetative material or crop residue generated in
the care of a garden. The term "landscape waste" does not include soil
other than incidental soil (e.g., soil attached to sod or attached to
other materials accumulated as a result of the care of lawns, shrubbery,
vines, trees or a garden).

   "Limited organic waste" means organic waste, other than landscape
waste, which does not include: fish; fish products; poultry; poultry
products; meat; meat products; eggs (excluding egg shells); cheese,
butter or other dairy products; fat; grease; oil or oily food; cat, dog,
or other animal excreta; animal feed losses or animal bedding; colored
or glossy paper; sawdust from pressure-treated plywood or lumber;
diseased or insect-infested houseplants or soil; or biodegradable or
compostable plastic.

   "Operator" means any person who is engaged in a garden composting
operation.

   "Organic waste" means food scrap, landscape waste, uncontaminated
wood waste or other non- hazardous carbonaceous waste that is collected
and processed separately from the rest of the municipal waste stream.

   "Owner" means any person who has legal title to any premises or
structure where a garden composting operation is conducted.

   "Uncontaminated wood waste" means untreated, unpainted and
unvarnished wood.

   "Vector" means any living agent, other than human, capable of
transmitting, directly or indirectly, an infectious disease.

(Prior code § 99-61.7; Amend Coun. J. 7-31-90, p. 19384; Amend Coun. J.
4-11-07, p. 102577, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 7; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-15, p.
4110, § 1)

7-28-715 Composting standards.

   (1)   Any composting operation which meets the qualifications of
paragraphs (3), (4) or (5) of this section shall be exempt from the
permit requirements of Chapter 11-4 of this Code.

   (2)   General composting standards. All composting operations which
meet the qualifications of paragraphs (3), (4) or (5) shall promote
proper conditions for composting and shall operate under the following
standards, in addition to all applicable local, state and federal laws,
rules and regulations:

      (a)   Nuisance. In no event shall any composting activity be
conducted in a manner which creates an odor, litter, dust or noise
nuisance, or attracts vectors or pests.

      (b)   Rat and other vector control. The presence of insects,
rodents, birds and other vectors or pests shall be controlled through
specific measures. These specific measures may include grinding the
ingredients, providing screens or netting, or conducting the composting
operation in-vessel.

      (c)   Surface water. The composting operation shall be located or
designed and constructed to prevent the composting material and compost
from sitting in ponded surface water. In no event shall any composting
activity be conducted in a manner which creates standing water resulting
from leachate.

      (d)   Mixing. Composting material shall be mixed or turned at
regular intervals as conditions mandate to re-mix ingredients,
distribute moisture, rebuild porosity and aid in physical breakdown
until composting is complete.

      (e)   [Reserved.]

      (f)   Sewage restriction. The composting material shall not
contain sewage, sludge, septage or catch basin waste. For the purposes
of this section, "sewage" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
Section 11-4-120 of this Code; "sludge" shall mean any solid,
semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal, commercial, or
industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or
air pollution control facility or any other such waste having similar
characteristics or effects; "septage" shall mean the waste found in a
septic tank; and "catch basin waste" shall mean the waste found in a
catch basin.

   (3)   (i)   Tier I garden composting operation. A composting
operation that composts only landscape waste, whether or not generated
on-site, shall be exempt from the permit requirements of Chapter 11-4 of
this Code if it meets the following criteria:

         (a)   Ingredients. The composting operation composts only
landscape waste.

         (b)   Noncommercial. The composting operation is not engaged in
commercial activities related to composting, the acceptance of landscape
waste or commercial landscaping.

         (c)   Size. The composting operation contains no more than a
total of 10 cubic yards of landscape waste, composting material and end
product compost on-site at any one time, unless express written
authorization has been issued by the commissioner of streets and
sanitation allowing a greater volume, not to exceed 25 cubic yards.

         (d)   Compost use. All generated compost must be used on-site.

   (3)   (ii)   Tier II garden composting operation. A composting
operation that composts only landscape waste and limited organic waste,
whether or not generated on-site, shall be exempt from the permit
requirements of Chapter 11-4 of this Code if it meets the following
criteria:

         (a)   Ingredients. The composting operation composts only
landscape waste and limited organic waste. The limited organic waste
shall not exceed 10% of the total material in the process of being
composted on-site at any one time.

         (b)   Processing. All limited organic waste that constitutes
food scrap must be processed into the composting operation by the end of
the day it was generated on-site or received from off-site. Other
limited organic waste must be processed into the composting operation or
be contained in a properly maintained covered steel or rigid plastic
container by the end of the day it was generated on-site or received
from off-site.

         (c)   Record keeping. The operator shall, in a form prescribed
by the commissioners, maintain on site and shall make available for
inspection records of all limited organic waste received from off-site.

         (d)   Compost use. All generated compost must be used on-site.

         (e)   Noncommercial. The composting operation is not engaged in
commercial activities related to composting, the acceptance of limited
organic waste or landscape waste, or commercial landscaping.

         (f)   Size. The composting operation contains no more than a
total of 10 cubic yards of landscape waste, limited organic waste,
composting material and end product compost on-site at any one time,
unless express written authorization has been issued by the commissioner
of streets and sanitation allowing a greater volume, not to exceed 25
cubic yards.

   (3)   (iii)   Registration. Any operator shall annually register with
the city's on-line or other registration portal, or a third party
registration portal approved by the commissioners by rule. Such
registration must include the name and contact information of the
operator, the name and contact information of the owner, the name and
contact information of the individual principally in charge of the site
operations (if different from the operator), and any other information
that may be required by the commissioners by rule. The operator must
keep such information current as provided by the commissioners by rule.

   (4)   On-site organic waste composting operation. A composting
operation that composts food scrap and/or non-hazardous carbonaceous
waste, whether or not landscape waste is added to the composting
mixture, shall be exempt from the permit requirements of Chapter 11-4 of
this Code if it meets the following criteria:

      (a)   Ingredients. The composting operation composts only organic
waste that is generated on-site.

      (b)   In-vessel requirement. Any composting of food scrap and/or
non-hazardous carbonaceous waste is conducted in-vessel. This
requirement also applies to mixtures of landscape wastes with these
wastes.

      (c)   Size. The composting operation contains no more than a total
of 5 cubic yards of landscape waste, composting material and end product
compost on-site at any one time, unless express written authorization
has been issued by the commissioner of streets and sanitation allowing a
greater volume.

      (d)   Compost use. All generated compost is used on-site.

   (5)   In addition to those composting operations described in
paragraphs (3) and (4), all composting operations which meet the
criteria for a permit-exempt facility pursuant to 35 Illinois Admin.
Code Section 830.105 shall meet the standards of paragraph (2)(a)
through (f) of this section, in addition to all applicable local, state
and federal laws, rules and regulations.

   (6)   Enforcement provisions. Any person that violates this section
or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder and is not operating
under a permit under Chapter 11-4 that permits composting shall be fined
not less than $300 nor more than $600 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to
which a separate fine shall apply. In addition, if any person violates
this section, the commissioner of health may issue an emergency or
non-emergency cessation or abatement order in accordance with Section
11-4-025 of this Code.

   (7)   The commissioner is authorized to enforce this section and
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The commissioners are
authorized to administer this section and to jointly adopt and
promulgate reasonable rules and regulations pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 4-11-07, p. 102577, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-15, p.
4110, § 1)

7-28-720 Accumulation of materials or junk.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate or permit the
accumulation on any open lot, or other premises, any lumber, boxes,
barrels, bricks, stones, scrap metal, motor vehicle bodies or parts, or
similar materials, or any articles of junk, which provides rat-
harborage, unless the same shall be placed on open racks that are
elevated not less than 18 inches above the ground, evenly piled or
stacked.

   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $5,000 for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a
separate fine shall apply.

(Prior code § 99-61.8; Amend Coun. J. 7-31-90, p. 19384; Amend Coun. J.
7-28-10, p. 97912, § 8; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. II, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 56894, § 1)

7-28-730 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. III, § 7, repealed §
7-28-730, which pertained to rat-stoppage by owner – lien.

7-28-735 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. III, § 8, repealed §
7-28-735, which pertained to food establishments.

ARTICLE VI. LOT MAINTENANCE (7-28-740 et seq.)

7-28-740 Lot maintenance – Required.

   It shall be the duty of the owner of any open lot located within the
City of Chicago to keep such lot free of garbage, ashes, refuse, trash,
rubbish, miscellaneous waste, manure or other substance that may contain
disease germs or be scattered by the wind, or decompose, or become
filthy, noxious or unhealthful. Any person who violates any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $600 for
each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply.

(Prior code § 99-62; Added Coun. J. 2-11-87, p. 39626; Amend 7-31-90, p.
19384; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-09, p. 67509, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p.
97912, § 9; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. II, § 1)

7-28-750 Screen fence required – Nuisance declared when.

   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any open lot located
within the City of Chicago to cause the lot to be surrounded with a
screen fence as defined in Section 14B-31-3114 of this Code. Provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to any governmental agency or
unit of local government; nor shall it apply to side yards. The owner
shall maintain any such fence in a safe condition without tears, breaks,
rust, splinters or dangerous protuberances and in a manner that does not
endanger or threaten to endanger vehicular traffic by obstructing the
view of drivers. Any fence which is not maintained in accordance with
these provisions is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be
removed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter 7-28. It shall be the
duty of the owner of any lot whose fence has been so removed to replace
such fence with a screen fence meeting the requirements of this section
and of this Code.

   (b)   The owner of any open lot located within the City of Chicago
shall affix one or more signs meeting the requirements of this
subsection to any fence required under subsection (a) of this section.
Such sign shall: (1) state "No parking. Tow Zone. Vehicles parked in
this lot shall be towed per M.C.C. Section 7-28-780"; (2) indicate the
name, address and telephone number of the current owner of the open lot;
(3) be made of a durable material; (4) contain lettering in a color that
contrasts sharply with the background color of the sign; (5) be affixed
to the fence in a conspicuous and prominent location so as to be clearly
visible and legible from all the public ways adjacent to the open lot;
and (6) be maintained in safe and proper condition. The Department of
Streets and Sanitation is authorized to promulgate rules necessary to
implement this subsection and shall enforce this subsection in
accordance with Sections 2-100-110 and 7-28-780.

   (c)   For purposes of this section, the term "owner" shall have the
meaning ascribed to the term in Chapter 14A-2 of this Code.

   (d)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $300 nor more than $600 for each offense. Each day
such violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense to which a separate fine shall apply. Provided, however, that it
shall be a defense to a violation adjudicated under this section if the
owner, as defined in subsection (c) of this section, proves to the
administrative law officer at the time of the initial hearing on the
issue of whether a violation under this section occurred that such owner
has installed, as applicable, fencing meeting the requirements of
subsection (a) of this section or signage meeting the requirements of
subsection (b) of this section or both.

(Prior code § 99-63; Added Coun. J. 2-11-87, p. 39626; Amend Coun. J.
7-31-90, p. 19384; Amend Coun. J. 10-8-08, p. 39855, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
7-29-09, p. 67509, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 10; Amend
Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p.
100029, Art. II, § 88; Amend Coun. J. 6-25-21, p. 32180, Art. IV, § 4;
Amend Coun. J. 7-20-22, p. 50564, § 1)

7-28-760 Severability.

   If any part, provision, phrase or application of Section 7-28-740 and
7-28-750 is found to be invalid for any reason, only said part,
provision, phrase or application will be affected.

(Prior code § 99-64; Added Coun. J. 2-11-87, p. 39626; Amend 7-31-90, p.
19384)

7-28-770 Exemption.

   All city-owned property shall be exempt from the provisions of
Sections 7-28-450, 7-28-455, 7-28-740 and 7-28-750.

(Prior code § 99-65; Added Coun. J. 2-11-87, p. 39626; Amend 7-31-90, p.
19384; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 11)

7-28-780 Parking of Vehicles in a Vacant Lot – Penalty for Violation –
Abatement – Lien.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:

   "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Streets and Sanitation or
the Commissioner's designee.

   "Department" means the City's Department of Streets and Sanitation.

   "Owner" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Chapter 14A-2.

   "Vacant lot" means a subdivided or unsubdivided parcel of land which
contains no temporary or permanent building or structure. A fence or
signage required under Section 7-28-750 shall not be considered to be a
structure on a vacant lot for purposes of this definition. The term
"vacant lot" does not include: (i) a parking lot licensed as a public
garage or accessory garage under Article IV of Chapter 4-232; or (ii) a
parking lot established in compliance with the Chicago Zoning Ordinance
or other applicable law.

   (b)   Parking Prohibited.

      (1)   The owner of any vacant lot located within the City shall
not allow or cause the parking of any vehicle in that vacant lot.
Failure to install or maintain a fence around a vacant lot, as required
under subsection (a) of Section 7-28-750, shall create a rebuttable
presumption that the owner of the vacant lot has allowed or caused the
parking of any vehicle parked in the vacant lot. Any owner of a vacant
lot who violates this subsection (b)(1) shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $300 nor more than $500. Each day that such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense to which a separate
fine shall apply.

      (2)   As provided in Section 9-64-115, it shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle in a vacant lot.

   (c)   Public Nuisance. Any vehicle parked in a vacant lot is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, upon instituting an administrative adjudication proceeding
or filing of a case in a court of law against the owner of a vacant lot
for violation of subsection (b)(1) of this section, the Department shall
post a yellow sticker on each vehicle currently parked in the vacant
lot, specifying that any and all vehicles parked in said lot shall be
subject to tow if the owner of the vacant lot is found liable of
violating subsection (b)(1). On or after a finding by the Department of
Administrative Hearings that the lot owner violated subsection (b)(1),
the Department shall post a 10-day notice in the form of a red sticker
on each vehicle parked in said vacant lot, specifying that the vehicle
shall be subject to tow if not removed within 10 days. The Department is
authorized to tow, or may cause to be towed, any vehicle parked in the
vacant lot after the expiration of the 10-day notice posted on such
vehicle pursuant to this subsection. Any vehicle not removed from a
vacant lot within 10 days of posting of the red sticker is deemed
abandoned under the terms of this subsection (c).

   If the owner of a vacant lot has been found liable for violating
subsection (b)(1), then (i) the Department need not place a yellow
sticker on any vehicle before towing it from said vacant lot; and (ii)
any vehicle parked in said lot before or after the finding of liability
is subject to tow 10 days after the placement of the 10-day notice on
the vehicle without further notice or adjudication.

   Any vehicle towed pursuant to this subsection shall be taken to an
authorized facility. In such event, the owner of the vacant lot on which
the towed vehicle was parked shall be liable to the City for any and all
costs and expenses incurred by the City in towing the vehicle, except
for towing and storage fees, plus a penalty of up to three times the
amount of the costs and expenses incurred by the City. Provided,
however, if the owner of the vacant lot is also the registered owner of
a vehicle towed pursuant to this section, in addition to other costs and
penalty provided in this subsection, the owner of the vacant lot shall
be liable to the City for the towing and storage charges as provided in
Sections 9-92-080 and 9-92-100(e) and the costs of postage for notices
and costs of collection. Such monies may be recovered in an appropriate
action instituted by the Corporation Counsel or in a proceeding
initiated by the Department or the Department of Health at the
Department of Administrative Hearings. The penalties imposed by this
subsection shall be in addition to any other penalty provided by law.

   (d)   Fence and Signage. The owner of any vacant lot located within
the City shall: (i) install and maintain a fence around a vacant lot as
required under subsection (a) of Section 7-28-750; and (ii) affix one or
more signs meeting the requirements of subsection (b) of Section
7-28-750.

   (e)   Lien. The costs and expenses incurred by the City in removing
vehicles parked in a vacant lot, except for towing and storage fees,
plus the amount of any applicable penalty incurred pursuant to this
section shall constitute a lien against the affected vacant lot if the
City or its authorized agent files a notice of lien in the Office of the
County Recorder. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out:

      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;

      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred by the City or payable for the service plus the amount of any
applicable penalty incurred pursuant to subsection (b) of this section;

      (3)   The date or dates when the cost or expense was incurred by
the City.

   The notice of lien shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and
expense and any applicable penalty is incurred; provided, however, that
nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the City from
collecting any amount of money owed to the City as set forth in the
findings, decision and order of an Administrative Law Officer or in a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction or in any other
manner permitted by law.

   Upon payment, after a notice of lien has been filed, of the amount of
money representing the cost and expense incurred by the City, plus the
amount of any applicable penalty incurred pursuant to this section, the
lien shall be released by the City for filing by the owner in the Office
of the County Recorder.

   (f)   Post-Tow Notice. If a vehicle parked in a vacant lot is towed
by the Department as provided in subsection (c) of this Section, the
owner of the towed vehicle shall be entitled to notice, consistent with
Section 9-92-070, of the right to request a hearing regarding the
validity of the tow and any towing or storage charges as provided in
Section 9-92-080. Whenever the Department is not able to ascertain the
name of the owner of an impounded vehicle or for any reason is unable to
give notice to the vehicle owner as provided in this subsection (f), the
Department shall immediately send or cause to be sent a written report
of such tow by mail to the Secretary of the State of Illinois. Such
notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the date,
time, and place from which towed, the reasons for such tow, and the
address of the authorized facility where the vehicle is stored.
Unclaimed motor vehicles towed under subsection (c) of this Section
shall be disposed of as provided in Section 9-92-100.

   In addition to applicable penalties, the last registered owner of the
vehicle towed under subsection (c) shall also be liable to the City for
the towing and storage charges as provided in Sections 9-92-080 and
9-92-100(e) and the costs of postage for notices and costs of
collection.

   (g)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a motor vehicle on
the premises of a licensed business establishment.

   (h)   Rules. The Department is authorized to adopt rules for the
proper administration and enforcement of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 7-20-22, p. 50564, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-22, p.
55595, Art. III, § 3)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 12, repealed former §
7-28-780, which pertained to ill-maintained lots and notice to correct.

7-28-785 Collection bins.

   (a)   For purposes of this section only, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:

      "Collection bin" means any bin, box, truck, or other container
placed outdoors for the collection of clothes or other items as
donations; provided that a "collection bin" shall not include any bin,
box or other small container used solely for the purpose of collecting
money.

      "Commissioner" means the commissioner of business affairs and
consumer protection.

      "Designated agent" means a person who maintains an office or
residence in the city and who is designated, in writing, by the owner or
lessee of the real property on which the collection bin will be located:
(i) to submit the letter required in subsection (c)(4) of this section;
(ii) for service of process; and (iii) to take remedial action and
respond to any violation of this section.

      "Local contact person" means a person authorized as an agent of
the operator who: (i) is designated for service of process; (ii) is
authorized by the operator to take remedial action and respond to any
violation of this code; and (iii) maintains a residence or office
located in the city.

      "Operator" means any person who installs or maintains a collection
bin.

      "Owner" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Chapter 14A-2.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or maintain any
collection bin outdoors on private property in the city without first
obtaining a permit from the department of business affairs and consumer
protection.

   The commissioner is authorized to issue permits for the installation
and maintenance of collection bins in accordance with this section.

   (c)   An application for a permit shall be made by an operator to the
department of business affairs and consumer protection and shall include
the following:

      (1)   the operator's name and address, the address of the lot on
which the proposed collection bin will be located, and the name and
address of the owner or lessee of the lot, if different from the
operator's;

      (2)   a detailed drawing (site map) indicating: (i) the position
of all permanent structures, including but not limited to, buildings and
driveways located within the lot; (ii) the location of all streets,
alleys, fire hydrants, light poles and traffic control signs adjacent to
the lot; (iii) the lot lines; and (iv) the location of the proposed
collection bin. The site map shall be legible and include a key to any
symbols;

      (3)   a statement indicating the scheduled times for removal of
the contents of the collection bin;

      (4)   a letter signed by the owner or lessee, or his designated
agent, setting forth the owner's or lessee's permission to locate the
collection bin on the lot, if such collection bin will not be installed
or maintained by the owner or lessee;

      (5)   pictures of the proposed site;

      (6)   the name, address and 24-hour telephone number of a local
contact person;

      (7)   the address of the website required in subsection (g); and

      (8)   any other information reasonably required by the
commissioner.

   (d)   The commissioner shall forward the completed application to the
alderman of the ward in which the proposed collection bin will be
located, along with a request for any information on the factors set
forth in subsection (f).

   (e)   No permit shall be issued for a collection bin on any lot:

      (1)   on which is located a vacant building, as that term is
defined in Chapter 14X-2; or

      (2)   containing a dwelling unit or sleeping unit, as those terms
are defined in Chapter 14B-2.

   (f)   The commissioner shall deny or revoke a permit issued under
this section if: (i) the granting of the permit would create a nuisance
in the surrounding area; (ii) the location of the collection bin would
interfere with or impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or
ingress or egress from any surrounding building or lot; (iii) the
location of the collection bin would impede or interfere with the use of
any pole, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes or other objects
located near the site of the proposed collection bin; (iv) the operator
makes any false statements, submits any false information or
misrepresents any information required under this section; or (v) for
any reason set forth in subsection (e).

   (g)   As a condition of the permit, it shall be the duty of the
permit holder to:

      (1)   maintain the collection bin in good condition and repair;

      (2)   use a collection bin of sufficient size to prevent any
overflow or accumulation of clothes or other donated items outside of
the collection bin;

      (3)   cause to be removed at his own cost and expense all contents
of the collection bin. The removal shall be of such frequency to prevent
the overflow and accumulation of clothes or other donated items outside
of the collection bin and shall be in accordance with the provisions of
this code. The schedule of removal of the items shall be posted on the
collection bin;

      (4)   ensure that the collection bin is only being used by the
operator listed on the permit. The name of the operator and permit
number shall be posted on collection the bin; and

      (5)   post on the collection bin the name and telephone number of
the local contact person to contact in case of any emergency; and

      (6)   maintain a website which lists the address and ward of each
collection bin installed or maintained by the operator, and a map
indicating the locations of such collection bins within the city. The
website shall be updated weekly and be accessible to the public.

   Failure to adhere to any conditions imposed in the permit may result
in revocation of the permit.

   (h)   No collection bin shall be placed so as to constitute a
nuisance to an adjacent property or the occupants thereof.

   (i)   A collection bin: (i) that is in poor condition or in a state
of disrepair; (ii) which clothes or other donated items are permitted to
accumulate outside of the collection bin; or (iii) containing items as a
result of a failure to empty the bin pursuant to a scheduled removal, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.

      (1)   Emergency abatement. In the event that the commissioner of
business affairs and consumer protection or the commissioner of streets
and sanitation determines that any activity in violation of this section
has created, or is creating, an imminent and substantial threat to the
environment or the public's health, safety, or welfare, then the
commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection or the
commissioner of streets and sanitation shall order the property owner to
abate the threat in the manner and within a time frame prescribed by
such commissioner. In the event that any person fails to abate such
threat in accordance with the order of such commissioner, or if the
property owner is unknown or cannot with due diligence be found, such
commissioner may proceed to control, remove, dispose or otherwise abate
the threat.

      (2)   Non-emergency abatement. If the commissioner of business
affairs and consumer protection or the commissioner of streets and
sanitation determines that any activity in violation of this section has
not created, or is not creating, an imminent and substantial threat to
the public's health, safety or welfare, such commissioner shall post on
the collection bin written notice to abate the nuisance in the manner
prescribed by such commissioner within thirty-six hours from posting the
notice. Such commissioner may also attempt to notify the local contact
person to abate said nuisance. If any person fails to abate such
nuisance in accordance with such commissioner's notice to abate, or if
the property owner is unknown or cannot with due diligence be found,
such commissioner may proceed to control, remove, dispose or otherwise
abate the nuisance.

      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
city of Chicago from acting without notice to abate a nuisance in an
emergency where the nuisance poses an immediate threat to public health
or safety, nor shall this section be construed to deny any common law
right to anyone to abate a nuisance.

      (4)   In addition to any other penalties imposed in this section,
the city shall be entitled to recover a penalty in the amount equal to
three times the cost or expense incurred by the city in abating the
nuisance plus its attorney fees and to place, and subsequently foreclose
on, a lien upon the property involved, if necessary, to secure the
recovery of its costs and fees. The penalties for the recovery of costs
shall be in addition to any penalties imposed in this section.

   (j)   A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be for a term of
two years, and the biennial fee shall be $100.00 per collection bin. The
permit shall expire on the date indicated on the face of the permit.

   (k)   Upon the determination that a person has violated a provision
of this section or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, the
commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection or the
commissioner of streets and sanitation may institute an administrative
adjudication proceeding with the department of administrative hearings
by forwarding a copy of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing,
which has been properly served, to the department of administrative
hearings; provided however, revocation of the permit by the commissioner
of business affairs and consumer protection shall be in accordance with
the requirements of Chapter 4-4 of the Municipal Code.

   (l)   The commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection is
authorized to adopt such rules and regulations as such commissioner
deems expedient for the proper administration and enforcement of this
section. The rules and regulations may include, but not be limited to,
provisions regulating the size and location of the collection bins on
the lots.

   (m)   The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
department of business affairs and consumer protection and by the
department of streets and sanitation.

   (n)   No operator whose permit under this section is revoked for any
cause shall be granted another permit under this section, under the same
or different name, for a period of one year from the date of revocation.
When a permit issued under this section is revoked, no permit issued
under this section shall be approved for the same location for a period
of two years from the date of revocation.

   (o)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less that $200 and not more than $1,000 for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

   (p)   In addition to any other penalties imposed in this section, any
person who knowingly makes any false statement, submits any false
information or misrepresents any information required under this section
shall be fined $500.00 per offense.

   It shall be a cause of revocation of the permit if the applicant has
made any false statements, submits any false information or
misrepresents any information required under this section.

   (q)   It shall be the duty of every owner of any lot on which is
located a collection bin to ensure that such collection bin has a valid
permit and is in compliance with this section. Any collection bin
installed or maintained in violation of this section shall be removed by
the operator or the owner of the lot on which the collection bin is
located. The owner and operator shall be jointly and severally liable
for any violation of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 97856, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 6-6-12, p. 28356, § 12; Amend Coun.
J. 11-15-12, p. 42188, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 37901, Art.
VIII, § 8; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 89)

7-28-790 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 13, repealed § 7-28-780,
which pertained to a penalty for this article.

ARTICLE VII. VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS (7-28-800 et seq.)

7-28-800 Violation – Penalty.

   (1)   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, and except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than $250.00 nor more
than $500.00 for each offense. Each day that such violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense to which a separate
fine shall apply.

   (2)   In addition to any other available penalties and remedies
provided for in the Code, one or more citations for violation of this
chapter on each of three or more separate days within a three month
period at the same construction site may result in a stop work order
issued by the department that issued the citations, directing that all
activity cease for 10 days. Any further citation for violation at the
same construction site within six months after the initial stop work
order may result in the issuance of another 10 day stop work order. The
department that issued the 10 day stop work order under this section
shall lift that order only if sufficient evidence of compliance with
this chapter is provided to the department. As used in this section, the
term "construction site" means any or all portion of the real property
that is identified as the location of any excavation or of the erection,
enlargement, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any building,
structure or structural part thereof within the city and that requires a
permit under Chapter 14A-4 of this Code. However, for purposes of this
section, "construction site" does not include a project location where
all construction and/or demolition activity, including the staging of
construction materials and storing of debris, is conducted within a
completely enclosed structure; nor does it include any project location
on any property that is, or hereafter becomes, part of Chicago-O’Hare
International Airport or Chicago Midway Airport. During the term of any
concession and lease agreement between the City of Chicago and a private
operator with respect to Chicago Midway Airport, the words "or Chicago
Midway Airport" shall be deleted from this paragraph (1)(b).

      (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly violate a
stop work order, or to knowingly cause, permit, encourage, assist, aid,
abet or direct another person to violate a stop work order, or to
knowingly in any manner be a party to a violation of a stop work order.

      Any person who violates this subsection upon conviction shall be
punished, as follows:

         (i)   incarceration for a term not less than three days, nor
more than six months, under the procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1
of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, as amended; and

         (ii)   community service of not less than 10 hours, nor more
than 100 hours; and

         (iii)   a fine of $5,000.00.

      (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly destroy,
deface, remove, damage, impair, mar, cover or obstruct any stop work
order that a city official has posted or affixed at a work site.

      Any person who violates this subsection upon conviction shall be
punished, as follows:

         (i)   incarceration for a term not less than three days, nor
more than six months, under the procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1
of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, as amended; and

         (ii)   community service of not less than 10 hours, nor more
than 100 hours; and

         (iii)   a fine of not less than $200.00, nor more than $500.00.

(Prior code § 99-74; Amend Coun. J. 3-9-88; p. 11146; Amend Coun. J.
12-15-04, p. 40435, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-28-10, p. 97912, § 14; Amend
Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 90)

ARTICLE VIII. BED BUGS. (7-28-810 et seq.)

7-28-810 Definitions.

   As used in this article, the following terms are defined as follows:

   "Bedding" means any mattress, box spring, foundation, or studio couch
made in whole or part from new or secondhand fabric, filling material,
or other textile product or material and which can be used for sleeping
or reclining purposes.

   "Commissioner" means the commissioner of public health.

   "Dwelling unit", "landlord", "rent" and "tenant" have the meaning
ascribed to those terms in Section 5-12-030.

   "Multiple rental unit building" means a building which contains two
or more rental units. A "multiple rental unit building" does not include
a condominium or cooperative building.

   "Pest Management Professional" means a person who: (i) is licensed,
registered or certified by the State of Illinois to perform pest control
services pursuant to the Structural Pest Control Act, 235 ILCS 235: (ii)
has attended courses or undergone training for the proper method for the
extermination of bed bugs; and (iii) follows National Pest Management
Association Best Practices for the extermination of bed bugs.

   "Rental unit" means any dwelling unit which is not owner occupied and
is held out for rent to tenants, including any single family home held
out for rent to tenants.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-820 Bed bugs – Nuisance.

   Bed bugs are hereby declared to be a public nuisance subject to the
abatement provisions of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-830 Bed bug infestation – Duty to exterminate.

   (a)   In any rental unit in which an infestation of bed bugs is found
or reasonably suspected, it is the responsibility of the landlord to:
(1) provide pest control services by a pest management professional
until such time that no evidence of bed bugs can be found and verified;
and (2) maintain a written record of the pest control measures performed
by the pest management professional on the rental unit. The record shall
include reports and receipts prepared by the pest management
professional. The record shall be maintained for three years and shall
be open to inspection by authorized city personnel, including but not
limited to employees of the departments of health and buildings.

   (b)   In any multiple rental unit building in which an infestation of
bed bugs is found or reasonably suspected, it is the responsibility of
the landlord to: (1) provide pest control services by a pest management
professional until such time that no evidence of bed bugs can be found
and verified within the building or portion thereof, including the
individual rental units; and (2) maintain a written record of the pest
control measures performed by pest management professional on the
building. The record shall include reports and receipts prepared by the
pest management professional. The record shall be maintained for three
years and shall be open to inspection by authorized city personnel,
including but not limited to employees of the departments of health and
buildings.

   (c)   A landlord shall provide the pest control services within 10
days after: (1) a bed bug is found or reasonably suspected anywhere on
the premises; or (2) being notified in writing by a tenant of a known or
reasonably suspected bed bug infestation on the premises or in the
tenant's rental unit.

   (d)   The extermination of bed bugs shall be by:

      (1)   inspection, and if necessary, the treatment of the dwelling
unit on either side of the affected dwelling unit and the unit directly
above and below the affected dwelling unit. This pattern of inspection
and treatment shall be continued until no further infestation is
detected; or

      (2)   any other method approved by the commissioner in rules and
regulations.

   (e)   A landlord may not knowingly terminate a tenancy, increase
rent, decrease services, bring or threaten to bring a lawsuit against a
tenant for possession or refuse to renew a lease or tenancy because the
tenant has in good faith:

      (1)   complained of a bed bug infestation within the tenant's
rental unit or the premises in which the tenant's rental unit is located
to a competent governmental agency, elected representative or public
official charged with responsibility for enforcement of a building,
housing, health or similar code;

      (2)   complained of a bed bug infestation within the tenant's
rental unit or the premises in which the tenant's rental unit is located
to a community organization or the news media;

      (3)   sought the assistance of a community organization or the
news media to remedy a bed bug infestation within the tenant's rental
unit or the premises in which the tenant's rental unit is located;

      (4)   requested the landlord to provide pest control measures for
a bed bug infestation as required by a building code, health ordinance,
other regulation, or the residential rental agreement; or

      (5)   testified in any court or administrative proceeding
concerning any bed bug infestation within the tenant's rental unit or
the premises in which the tenant's rental unit is located.

If the landlord acts in violation of this subsection (e), the tenant has
a defense in any retaliatory action against him for possession and is
entitled to recover possession of the rental unit or terminate the
rental agreement and, in either case, may recover an amount equal to two
months rent or twice the damages sustained by him, whichever is greater,
and reasonable attorneys' fees. If the rental agreement is terminated,
the landlord shall return all security and interest recoverable under
Section 5-12-080 and all prepaid rent. In an action by or against the
tenant, if there is evidence of tenant conduct protected herein within
one year prior to the alleged act of retaliation, that evidence shall
create a rebuttable presumption that the landlord's conduct was
retaliatory. The presumption shall not arise if the protected tenant
activity was initiated after the alleged act of retaliation.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-840 Condominium and cooperative buildings – Plan for treatment of
bed bugs.

   (a)   No later than 90 days after the effective date of this section,
the governing association of a condominium or cooperative building shall
prepare a pest management plan for the detection, inspection and
treatment of bed bugs in the building. The plan shall include the
provisions of Section 7-28-830(c).

   (b)   The governing association shall maintain written records of any
pest control measures in the building performed by a pest management
professional retained by the governing association and any report
prepared by the pest management professional. The plan and records shall
be: (1) maintained either on-site in the building or at the property
management office; (2) maintained for three years; and (3) open to
inspection upon request by authorized city personnel, including but not
limited to employees of the departments of health and buildings.

   (c)   Every owner of condominium unit or a lessee with a proprietary
lease in a cooperative shall immediately notify, in writing, the
governing association of any known or reasonably suspected bed bug
infestation in the presence of the unit or cooperative, clothing,
furniture or other personal property located in the unit or cooperative,
and cooperate with the governing association in the control, treatment
and eradication of bed bug infestation found or suspected to be in the
unit or cooperative.

   (d)   For purposes of this section the following definitions apply:

      "Condominium unit" or "unit" has the meaning ascribed to that term
in Section 13-72-010.

      "Cooperative building" means a building or buildings and the
tract, lot, or parcel on which the building or buildings are located and
fee title to the land and building or buildings is owned by a
corporation or other legal entity in which the shareholders or other
co-owners each also have a long-term proprietary lease or other
long-term arrangement of exclusive possession for a specific unit of
occupancy space located within the same building or buildings.

      "Cooperative" is an individual dwelling unit within a cooperative
building.

      "Governing association" means the board of managers of a
condominium homeowners' association or the board of directors of a
cooperative building.

   (e)   The commissioner shall prepare and post on the health
department's publicly accessible website a sample plan for the
detection, inspection and treatment of bed bugs for the governing
association of condominium or cooperative building. The sample plan
shall set forth the best practices for the detection and treatment of
bed bugs in such buildings.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-14, p. 85543,
§ 1)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-850 Tenant responsibility.

   (a)   Within 5 days after a tenant finds or reasonably suspects a bed
bug infestation in the presence of the tenant's dwelling unit, the
tenant shall notify, in writing, the landlord of any known or reasonably
suspected bed bug infestation in the presence of the tenant's dwelling
unit, clothing, furniture or other personal property located in the
building, or of any recurring or unexplained bites, stings, irritation,
or sores of the skin or body which the tenant reasonably suspects is
caused by bed bugs.

   (b)   The tenant shall cooperate with the landlord in the control,
treatment and eradication of bed bug infestation found or reasonably
suspected to be, in the tenant's rental unit. As part of that
cooperation, the tenant shall:

      (1)   not interfere with inspections or treatments;

      (2)   after reasonable notice in writing to the tenant, grant
access at reasonable times to the tenant's rental unit for purposes of
bed bug infestation inspection or treatment;

      (3)   make any necessary preparations, such as cleaning, dusting
or vacuuming, prior to treatment in accordance with any pest management
professional's recommendations; and

      (4)   dispose of any personal property that a pest management
professional has determined cannot be treated or cleaned before the
treatment of the tenant's dwelling unit.

      (5)   prior to removing any personal property from the tenant's
dwelling unit, safely enclose in a plastic bag any such personal
property while it is being moved through any common area of the
building, or stored at any other location. The personal property shall
remain enclosed in a plastic bag until such time that the property is
either properly disposed of or treated and no evidence of beg bug
infestation can be found and verified.

   (c)   Prior to inspection or treatment for bed bug infestation, the
landlord shall send a written notice to the tenant of the rental unit
being inspected or treated, which advises the tenant of the tenant's
responsibilities under this section and sets forth the specific
preparations required by the tenant.

   (d)   This section shall not apply to any tenant of an assisted
living or shared housing establishment, or similar living arrangement,
when the establishment is required to provide the tenant assistance with
activities of daily living or mandatory services. In such cases, the
landlord will be responsible to make the necessary preparations, such as
cleaning, dusting or vacuuming, of the tenant's rental unit prior to
treatment in accordance with any pest management professional's
recommendations. For purposes of this subsection, the terms "assistance
with activities of daily living", "assisted living establishment",
"mandatory services" and "shared housing establishment" have the meaning
ascribed to those terms in the Illinois Assisted Living and Shared
Housing Act, 210 ILCS 9/10.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-860 Sale of secondhand bedding.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:

   "Act" means the Illinois Safe and Hygienic Bed Act, 410 ILCS 68/1.

   "Bedding", "manufacturer", "renovator", rebuilder", "repairer",
"sanitizer", and "secondhand material" have the meaning ascribed to
those terms in Section 410 ILCS 68/5 of the Act.

   "Secondhand bedding" means bedding that is made in whole or part from
secondhand material or that has been previously used or owned.

   (b)   Every manufacturer, renovator, rebuilder, repairer and
sanitizer of bedding whose product is sold in the city shall comply with
the Act.

   (c)   Every person who sells at retail any secondhand bedding shall
post in a conspicuous location nearby the secondhand bedding a written
notice in English, Spanish, Polish and Chinese that the bedding is made
in whole or part from secondhand material or was previously owned or
used.

   (d)   Every person who sells at retail any secondhand bedding shall
provide to the purchaser of such secondhand bedding a written notice in
English, Spanish, Polish and Chinese that the bedding is made in whole
or part from secondhand material or has been previously owned or used.

   (e)   Every person who sells at retail any new or secondhand bedding
shall inspect all material for soiling, malodor, and pest infestation,
including bed bugs, prior to use, sale or distribution of the bedding.
If any material in the bedding appears to be soiled, malodorous or
infested with pests, the person shall not use, sell or distribute such
bedding. If the bedding is infested with bed bugs, the person shall
dispose of such bedding and material in an enclosed plastic bag and
labeled as being infested with bed bugs.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-870 Public information.

   The commissioner shall prepare and post on the health department's
publicly available website:

   (a)   a brochure containing, at a minimum, the following: (1) a
statement that the presence of bed bugs in any building or dwelling unit
is a public nuisance; (2) information on how to detect the presence of
bed bugs; (3) information on how to prevent the spread of bed bugs
within and between buildings; (4) a statement that tenants shall contact
their landlord as soon as practicable if they suspect they have bed bugs
in their dwelling unit; and (5) contact information as to where people
can obtain more information; and

   (b)   information relating to licensing, registration or
certification by the State of Illinois to perform pest control services.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-880 Rules.

   The commissioner of health and the commissioner of buildings shall
have joint authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
implement this article.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-890 Enforcement.

   (a)   Inspectors from the departments of buildings and health shall
have authority to inspect the interior and exterior of buildings, other
structures, or parcels on which a building is located for bed bug
infestation and when any evidence is found indicating the presence of
bed bugs at that site and to report such evidence to the appropriate
commissioner.

   (b)   This article may be enforced by the departments of public
health or buildings. In addition, the department of business affairs and
consumer protection shall have the authority to enforce Section
7-28-860.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 -
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

7-28-900 Violation – Penalties.

   Any person who violates this article shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $500 for the first violation, not less than $500 nor
more than $1,000 for the second violation within twelve-months of the
first violation, and not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,000 for the
third or subsequent violation within such twelve- month period. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense to which a separate fine shall apply.

(Added Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 5)

Editor's note – Per Coun. J. 6-5-13, p. 55787, § 6, §§ 7-28-810 –
7-28-900 become effective on 12-23-13.

CHAPTER 7-30
PLASTIC BAG AND FILM PLASTIC RECYCLING ORDINANCE

7-30-010   Definitions.

7-30-020   Recycling program requirements.

7-30-030   Manufacturer responsibilities.

7-30-040   Penalties.

7-30-050   Severability.

7-30-010 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this chapter:

   (a)   "Commissioner" shall mean the Commissioner of the Department of
Business Affairs and Consumer Protection of the City.

   (b)   "Consumer" shall mean any person who purchases a product from a
store that is placed in a plastic bag at the time of sale.

   (c)   "Department" shall mean the City's Department of Business
Affairs and Consumer Protection.

   (d)   "Film plastic" shall mean uncontaminated and unsoiled non-rigid
film plastic packaging products composed of plastic resins that include,
but are not limited to, newspaper bags, dry cleaning bags and shrink
wrap.

   (e)   "Food service establishment" shall mean any establishment where
the primary business is providing food for individual portion service
directly to the consumer, whether consumption of such food occurs on or
off the premises or such service is provided in a premises or from a
pushcart, stand or vehicle.

   (f)   "Manufacturer" shall mean every person, firm or corporation
that: (1) produces plastic carryout bags that are sold or distributed
within the City of Chicago; or (2) imports plastic carryout bags into
the United States that are sold or distributed within the City of
Chicago.

   (g)   "Operator" shall mean a person, firm or corporation that owns
or is in control of, or has responsibility for, the daily operation of a
store.

   (h)   "Plastic carryout bags" shall mean a plastic bag provided by a
store to a consumer at the point of sale that is not a reusable bag.

   (i)   "Reusable bag" shall mean: (1) a bag made of cloth or other
machine washable fabric that has handles; or (2) a durable plastic bag,
with handles, that is at least 1.15 mils thick and is specifically
designed and manufactured for multiple reuse.

   (j)   "Store" shall mean a retail or wholesale establishment, other
than a food service establishment, where twenty-five percent (25%) or
more of gross sales include prescription or non-prescription medicines
and/or any cooked or uncooked article of food, drink, confection or
condiment used for or intended to be used for human consumption off the
premises, is stored, sold, prepared, cooked or offered for sale at
retail such as candy manufacturers, confectioneries, fish markets, fruit
and vegetable markets, grocery stores, convenience stores, meat markets,
nut stores, dressed poultry markets or retail bakeries, bakery outlets
or any similar place and provides plastic carryout bags to consumers in
which to place these products.

(Added Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 27153, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. II, § 6)

7-30-020 Recycling program requirements.

   (a)   Every operator shall establish an in-store recycling program
that shall include, but need not be limited to, the following:

      (1)   a bin for the collection of plastic carryout bags and other
film plastic shall be placed in a visible location that is easily
accessible to the consumer, and clearly marked as available for the
purpose of collecting plastic carryout bags and other film plastic for
recycling;

      (2)   all plastic carryout bags and other film plastic returned to
a store are to be collected, transported and recycled in a manner
consistent with the provisions of this chapter or any rule promulgated
pursuant to this chapter;

      (3)   the operator shall make available to consumers within a
store at or near the place where plastic carryout bags are dispensed,
reusable bags, which may be purchased and used in lieu of a plastic
carryout bag or paper bag.

(Added Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 27153, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. II, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 4-30-14, p. 79540, § 2; Amend Coun.
J. 11-19-14, p. 98037, § 8; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 38042, Art. II,
§ 2)

7-30-030 Manufacturer responsibilities.

   (a)   A manufacturer whose plastic carryout bags are sold or
distributed to a store subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
make arrangements with the operator, upon the operator's request, for
the collection, transport and recycling of all plastic carryout bags and
other film plastic collected consistent with the provisions of this
chapter. Such arrangements may include contracts or other agreements
with third parties.

   (b)   A manufacturer that arranges with an operator for the
collection, transport and recycling of plastic carryout bags and other
film plastic shall report to such operator the total amount by weight of
plastic carryout bags and other film plastic that has been collected and
the physical location where the said plastic recycling occurred from
such operator. Such annual report shall cover the calendar year,
beginning with a report covering calendar year two thousand nine (2009),
and be submitted to such operator no later than January thirty-first
(31st) following the calendar year to which the annual report relates.

   (c)   A manufacturer whose plastic carryout bags are sold or
distributed to a store subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
make arrangements with the operator, upon the operator's request, to
provide such operator educational materials that encourage the
reduction, reuse and recycling of plastic carryout bags.

(Added Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 27153, § 2)

7-30-040 Penalties.

   (a)   Any operator who violates subsection (a) of Section 7-30-020 of
this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of $300 per day
for each day that a recycling program meeting the requirements of such
subsection is not in effect. It shall be an affirmative defense to a
violation of Subsection (a) of Section 7-30-020 that the operator used
its best efforts to comply with such paragraph but was unable to because
of circumstances beyond such operator's control.

   (b)   Any operator who violates subsection (b) of Section 7-30-020 of
this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of: (1) $100 for
the first violation; (2) $700 for the second violation within a
twelve-month period of the first violation; and (3) $1,000 for the third
violation within such twelve-month period.

   (c)   Any operator who violates subsection (c) of Section 7-30-020 of
this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of: (1) $100 for
the first violation; (2) $700 for the second violation within a
twelve-month period of the first violation; and (3) $1,000 for the third
violation within such twelve-month period.

   (d)   Any manufacturer who violates subsection (a) of Section
7-30-030 of this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of
$500 per day for each day that such violation continues.

   (e)   Any manufacturer who violates subsection (b) of Section
7-30-030 of this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of:
(1) $100 for the first violation; (2) $1,000 for the second violation
within a twelve- month period of the first violation; and (3) $1,500 for
the third violation within such twelve-month period.

   (f)   Any manufacturer who violates subsection (c) of Section
7-30-030 of this chapter shall be liable for a fine in the amount of:
(1) $100 for the first violation; (2) $1,000 for the second violation
within a twelve-month period of the first violation; and (3) $1,500 for
the third violation within such twelve-month period.

   (g)   The failure of an operator or manufacturer to provide the
report or maintain the records, or of a manufacturer to provide
educational material requested by an operator, required by Sections
7-30-020 and 7-30-030 of this chapter shall constitute a continuing
violation that subjects such operator or manufacturer to up to three
notices of violation within the twelve-month periods provided in
subsections (b), (c), (e) and (f) of this section.

   (h)   The Department shall have the authority to enforce all
provisions of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 27153, § 2)

7-30-050 Severability.

   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of
this chapter or application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall
for any reason be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder of this chapter and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances, but shall be confined in
its operation to the provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or
part thereof already involved in the controversy in which such judgment
has been rendered and to the person and circumstances affected thereby.

(Added Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 27153, § 2)

CHAPTER 7-32
CHICAGO CLEAN INDOOR AIR ORDINANCE OF 2008*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 12-7-05, p. 63213, § 1, repealed former Ch.
7-32 and added a new Ch. 7-32 to read as formerly herein set out. Former
Ch. 7-32 pertained to no-smoking regulations. Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615,
§ 1, repealed that subsequent Ch. 7-32 and added a new Ch. 7-32 as
herein set out. The second former Ch. 7-32 pertained to the Clean Indoor
Air Ordinance of 2005.

7-32-005   Title.

7-32-010   Definitions.

7-32-015   Smoking in public places, places of employment and
governmental vehicles prohibited.

7-32-020   Posting of signs; removal of ashtrays.

7-32-025   Smoking prohibited in student dormitories.

7-32-030   Designation of other nonsmoking areas.

7-32-032   Use of smokeless tobacco at sites for professional and
amateur baseball and other sporting events prohibited.

7-32-035   Exemptions.

7-32-040   Enforcement; Complaints.

7-32-045   Violations.

7-32-050   Discrimination prohibited.

7-32-055   Construction with other code provisions.

7-32-060   Rules.

7-32-005 Title.

   This chapter shall be known as the Chicago Indoor Air Ordinance of
2008.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-010 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:

   "Bar" means an establishment which has as its primary business the
serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests on the
premises. "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs,
cocktail lounges, adult entertainment facilities, and cabarets.

   "Department" means the City of Chicago Department of Public Health.

   "Electronic cigarette" means any electronically actuated device which
in operation causes the user to exhale any smoke, vapor, or other
substance other than those produced by unenhanced human exhalation.
"Electronic cigarette" includes any such device, whether manufactured,
distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette, an electronic
cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic
hookah, or under any other product name or descriptor. The term
"electronic cigarette" does not include any asthma inhaler or other
device that has been specifically approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.

   "Employee" means a person who is employed by an employer in
consideration for direct or indirect monetary wages or profits or a
person who volunteers his or her services for a nonprofit entity.

   "Employer" means a person, business, partnership, association, or
corporation, including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit
entity, that employs the services of one or more individual persons.

   "Enclosed area" means all space between a floor and a ceiling that is
enclosed or partially enclosed with (i) solid walls or windows,
exclusive of doorways, or (ii) solid walls with partitions and no
windows, exclusive of doorways, that extend from the floor to the
ceiling, including, without imitation, lobbies and corridors.

   "Enclosed or partially enclosed sports arena" means any sports
pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool,
roller rink, ice rink, bowling alley, or other similar place where
members of the general public assemble to engage in physical exercise or
participate in athletic competitions or recreational activities or to
witness sports, cultural, recreational, or other events.

   "Event site for professional, collegiate, high school or organized
amateur sporting events" means the entire physical area in which such
sporting events occur. The event site shall include all open spaces and
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, including, but not limited
to playing fields, dugouts, bullpens, training rooms, locker rooms, team
bench areas, spectator seating areas, pedestrian walkways, bathrooms,
dining areas, vendor areas, offices, and recreational areas.

   "Gaming equipment or supplies" means gaming equipment / supplies as
defined in the Illinois Gaming Board Rules of the Illinois
Administrative Code.

   "Gaming facility" means an establishment utilized primarily for the
purposes of gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated
for the purposes of accruing business revenue.

   "Healthcare facility" means an office or institution providing care
or treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or
other medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including,
but not limited to, assisted living establishments as defined in Section
4-6-100(a), long-term care facilities as defined in Section 4-6-100(a),
adult family care homes as defined in Section 4-6-100(a), hospitals,
rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes, homes
for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all
specialists within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all
waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards
within healthcare facilities.

   "Live theatre location" means any building, playhouse, room, hall, or
other place utilized by live performers to present artistic
representations of real or imagined events in front of a live audience.

   "Performance space" means the portion or portions of a live theater
location where performances occur. "Performance space" excludes all
other portions of live theatre locations, including, but not limited to,
hallways, lobbies, and public restrooms.

   "Place of employment" means any area under the control of a public or
private employer that employees are required to enter, leave, or pass
through during the course of employment, including, but not limited to
entrances and exits to places of employment, including a minimum
distance of 15 feet from entrances, exits, windows that open, and
ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference and
classrooms; break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A
private residence or home-based business, unless used to provide
licensed child care, foster care, adult care, or other similar social
service care on the premises, is not a "place of employment."

   "Private club" means a not-for-profit association, whether
incorporated or not, that (1) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a
building or portion thereof used for club purposes, and (2) is operated
for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent,
or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain. For purposes of this
definition, the term "private club" includes an organization that is
managed by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body
chosen by the members at an annual meeting, has established bylaws, a
constitution, or both to govern its activities, and has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26
U.S.C. § 501.

   "Private residence" means the part of a structure used as a dwelling,
including, without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium,
apartment, mobile home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the
purposes of this definition, a hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and
breakfast or other similar public accommodation, hospital, nursing home,
or assisted living facility shall not be considered a private residence.

   "Professional, collegiate, high school or organized amateur sporting
events" includes: (1) baseball, softball, football, basketball, hockey,
track and field, field hockey, lacrosse and soccer; and (2) any other
game or other athletic competition organized by a league or association
of persons.

   "Public place" means that portion of any building or vehicle used by
and open to the public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is
owned in whole or in part by private persons or entities, the City of
Chicago, or any other public entity and regardless of whether a fee is
charged for admission, including a minimum distance of 15 feet from
entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve
an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. A "public place" does not
include a private residence unless the private residence is used to
provide licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social
service care on the premises. A "public place" includes, but is not
limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert
halls, public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes,
auditoriums, enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting
rooms, schools, exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places,
private clubs, gaming facilities, all government owned vehicles and
facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or operated
by the City of Chicago or City subcontract, healthcare facilities or
clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service establishments,
financial institutions, ticket areas, public hearing facilities, public
restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars, taverns, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than 75% of the sleeping
quarters within a hotel, motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast,
or other similar public accommodation that are rented to guests, but
excludes private residences.

   "Restaurant" means (i) an eating establishment, including, but not
limited to, coffee shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and
public school cafeterias, that gives or offers for sale food to the
public, guests, or employees, and (ii) a kitchen or catering facility in
which food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere.
"Restaurant" includes a bar area within the restaurant.

   "Retail tobacco store" means a retail establishment: (1) that derives
more than 80 percent of its gross revenue from the sale, in any
combination, of loose tobacco, cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, pipes,
other smoking devices and accessories, hookahs and related products, or
electronic cigarettes and related products, components or parts thereof;
and (2) in which the sale of products other than those listed in item
(1) of this definition is merely incidental. The term "retail tobacco
store" does not include a tobacco department or section of a larger
commercial establishment or any establishment with a liquor or retail
food establishment license.

   "Smoke" or "smoking" means either (1) the carrying, smoking, burning,
inhaling, or exhaling of any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette,
hookah, weed, herbs, or any other lighted smoking equipment; or (2) the
use of any electronic cigarette.

   "Smokeless tobacco" means any product that contains cut, ground,
powdered, or leaf tobacco and is intended to be placed in the oral or
nasal cavity, including but not limited to, snuff chewing tobacco,
dipping tobacco, dissolvable tobacco products and snus.

   "Theatre actor" means an individual in the process of presenting an
artistic representation of real or imagined events in front of a live
audience, or in the process of rehearsing to do the same. The term
"theatre actor" applies to both women and men.

   "Use of smokeless tobacco" means the placing of any smokeless tobacco
in the oral or nasal cavity.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485,
§ 161; Amend Coun. J. 1-15-14, p. 73351, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 3-16-16, p.
19435, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 4-18-18, p. 76348, § 22; Amend Coun. J.
11-24-20, p. 24003, Art. I, § 1)

7-32-015 Smoking in public places, places of employment and governmental
vehicles prohibited.

   Unless an exemption contained in Section 035 of this chapter
specifically applies, no person shall smoke in a public place or in any
place of employment. No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased,
or operated by the City of Chicago.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-020 Posting of signs; removal of ashtrays.

   (a)   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed
in a red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted in each public place and place of employment where
smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager,
or other person in control of that place.

   (b)   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a
conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.

   (c)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this Chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other
person having control of the area.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-025 Smoking prohibited in student dormitories.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is
prohibited in any portion of the living quarters, including, but not
limited to, sleeping rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas,
lobbies, and hallways of a building used in whole or in part as a
student dormitory that is owned and operated or otherwise utilized by a
public or private institution of higher education.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-030 Designation of other nonsmoking areas.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer,
owner, occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control
of any public place or place of employment may designate a non-enclosed
area of a public place or place of employment, including outdoor areas,
as an area where smoking is also prohibited provided that such employer,
owner, lessee or occupant shall conspicuously post signs prohibiting
smoking in the manner described in subsections (a) and (b) of Section
020 of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-032 Use of smokeless tobacco at sites for professional and amateur
baseball and other sporting events prohibited.

   (a)   No person shall use smokeless tobacco at an event site for
professional, collegiate, high school or organized amateur sporting
events.

   (b)   Persons having the authority to manage and control an event
site for professional, collegiate, high school or organized amateur
sporting events shall post at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
communicating that the use of smokeless tobacco is prohibited. Such
signs shall also be posted in all dugouts, bullpens, training rooms,
locker rooms, press boxes, television and radio broadcast booth and
bathrooms.

   (c)   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity
who violates any provision of this section shall be fined pursuant to
this section. Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation.

   (d)   A person who uses smokeless tobacco at an event site for
professional, collegiate, high school or organized amateur sporting
events shall be fined in an amount that is not less than $100 and not
more than $250. A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls an
event site for professional, collegiate, high school or organized
amateur sporting events that violates any provision of this chapter
shall be fined (i) not less than $250 for the first violation, (ii) not
less than $500 for the second violation within one year after the first
violation, and (iii) not less than $2,500 for each additional violation
within one year after the first violation and a 60-day suspension or
revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the
premises on which the violation occurred.

(Added Coun. J. 3-16-16, p. 19435, § 2)

7-32-035 Exemptions.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is
allowed in the following areas:

   (1)   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a
child care, adult day care, or healthcare facility or any other
home-based business open to the public.

   (2)   Retail tobacco stores as defined in Section 010 of this chapter
in operation prior to January 1, 2008. Any retail tobacco store that
begins operation after January 1, 2008 may only qualify for an exemption
if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the business
and smoke from the business does not migrate into an enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited. Notwithstanding any other provision in this
subsection, the use of electronic cigarettes is prohibited in any retail
tobacco store.

   (3)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and
are designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the
same floor must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not
infiltrate into nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is
prohibited. Not more than 25% of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel
or motel may be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status
of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to
permanently add additional nonsmoking rooms.

   In addition, theatre actors shall be allowed to use nicotine-free
electronic cigarettes within performance spaces.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 1-15-14, p. 73351,
§ 5; Amend Coun. J. 1-18-23, p. 59711, § 2)

7-32-040 Enforcement; Complaints.

   (a)   Chapter 7-32 shall be enforced by the department of public
health, and the department of business affairs and consumer protection,
or their authorized designees.

   (b)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the City of Chicago.

   (c)   Any person who desires to register a complaint pursuant to this
chapter may initiate enforcement with the Department by calling 3-1-1 or
such other method as the Department may establish.

   (d)   The Department or its designees shall, while an establishment
is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance
with this chapter.

   (e)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment
regulated by this chapter shall inform persons violating any provision
of this chapter of the appropriate provisions thereof.

   (f)   In addition to the remedies provided by this chapter, the
Department or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner,
operator, manager or other person in control of a public place or a
place of employment to comply with the provisions of this chapter may
apply for injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of
competent jurisdiction.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5)

7-32-045 Violations.

   (a)   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to
this section. Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation.

   (b)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited
under any provision of this chapter shall be fined in an amount that is
not less than $100 and not more than $250. A person who owns, operates,
or otherwise controls a public place or place of employment that
violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined (i) not less than
$250 for the first violation, (ii) not less than $500 for the second
violation within one year after the first violation, and (iii) not less
than $2,500 for each additional violation within one year after the
first violation and a sixty (60) day suspension or revocation of any
permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the
violation occurred.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-050 Discrimination prohibited.

   No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of
the exercise of any rights afforded by this chapter. No person or
employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner retaliate
against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because that
employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-055 Construction with other code provisions.

   No reference or omission in this chapter shall be construed to allow
smoking if otherwise restricted or prohibited by other code provisions.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1)

7-32-060 Rules.

   The department of public health, and the department of business
affairs and consumer protection, are authorized to adopt rules necessary
for the administration of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20615, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5)

CHAPTER 7-36
TOY SAFETY

7-36-010   Hazardous substances.

7-36-020   Construction.

7-36-030   Minimum sizes.

7-36-040   Electrical code conformity.

7-36-050   Angle of rotation.

7-36-060   Dangerous coatings.

7-36-070   Noise restrictions.

7-36-080   Enforcement.

7-36-090   Toy defined.

7-36-100   Standards for beds, cribs, playpens and other enclosed
devices.

7-36-110   Standards for full size cribs.

7-36-112   Crib bumper pads.

7-36-115   Child passenger safety seat sale or leases

7-36-120   Violation – Penalty.

7-36-010 Hazardous substances.

   No toy or other article intended for use by children (or an article
packaged in a form suitable for use by children) may be sold, offered
for sale, or given away without compensation, that is a hazardous
substance or that bears or contains hazardous substance or economic
poison (in such a manner as to be susceptible of access by a child to
whom such article is entrusted) within the meaning of Section 2(f) (1)
of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (15 U.S.C. 1261 (f) (1)), and
the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto unless specifically
exempted by such law or regulations. A hazardous substance is a
substance or mixture of substances which is (1) toxic, corrosive, an
irritant, a strong sensitizer, flammable, combustible, radioactive, or
which generates pressure through heat, decomposition, or other means, or
which may cause substantial personal injury or substantial illness
during or as a proximate result of any foreseeable handling or use,
including reasonable foreseeable ingestion by children, or (2) an
article that may present an electrical, mechanical, or thermal hazard as
may be determined pursuant to the aforementioned federal law or
regulation.

(Prior code § 100.1-1)

7-36-020 Construction.

   (a)   No toy may be sold or offered for sale, or given away without
compensation, which has any corners, rims, edges, points, or other
surfaces capable of inflicting a puncture wound or laceration, unless
such corners, rims, edges, points, or other surfaces have a minimum
radius of curvature of .005 inches.

   (b)   Sheet metal parts less than .015 inch thick must have the edges
rolled or otherwise protected if the edges are exposed (a) during
assembly by the purchaser, (b) in use, or (c) as a result of reasonably
foreseeable use or misuse.

   (c)   The accessible portions of metal toys of heavier gauge shall be
deburred or deflashed or the edges suitably protected.

   (d)   Accessible portions of plastic toys shall be suitably deburred
or deflashed or the edges suitably protected. Sections should be
designed so as to avoid generation of sharp edges during reasonably
foreseeable use or misuse.

   (e)   Wooden toys shall have accessible edges suitably finished.

   (f)   Toys which contain wires that are likely to become exposed in
use or reasonably foreseeable use or misuse, shall be constructed so
that the wire ends shall be turned back or otherwise protected.

   (g)   Rigid shafts or similar projections shall have a protective tip
which will withstand a pulling force of ten pounds, unless the shaft or
projection has a one- fourth inch. Threaded bolts shall be protected
with caps if they are accessible.

   (h)   Folding mechanisms, brackets, arms and braces shall embody a
safety stop to afford protection for the fingers against crushing in the
event of sudden or unexpected movement.

   (i)   Hinges shall operate without producing an accessible gap of
greater than one-eighth inch between the hinged portion and the body of
the toy.

   (j)   Chains shall be designed so that fingers cannot be trapped
between adjacent links if the chain is a load-bearing component.

   (k)   All mechanical mechanisms including, but not limited to
electrically driven toys, shall be enclosed to prevent access to moving
parts in toys intended for children under the age of six years.

   (l)   Any wheeled toy intended to bear the weight of a child, or that
is likely to be used as an informal seat, shall be properly balanced so
that it shall not tip on an incline of 15 degrees in any direction with
a simulated child's weight applied.

   (m)   Toys that form enclosures shall have permanent holes in two or
more sides and shall not be fitted with self-locking doors. All
head-enclosed toys shall be made from rigid plastic and provided with a
minimum of four ventilation holes.

(Prior code § 100.1-2)

7-36-030 Minimum sizes.

   (a)   No toy may be sold or offered for sale, or given away without
compensation that contains any parts, pieces, or components that measure
less than one and one-half inches in any two dimensions and are
reasonably likely to be ingested by children or would under normal use
be subjected to ingestion by children, or present a potential hazard in
ingestion to children.

   (b)   Any toy intended for the use by children under the age of two
years which contains eyes or other components falling within the size
specifications for ingestible objects as defined in paragraph (a), shall
either be attached so that they cannot be gripped by fingers or teeth,
or shall withstand removal when subjected to a 10-pound pull. If
retained by stitching, then the thread shall be wear-resistant.

(Prior code § 100.1-3)

7-36-040 Electrical code conformity.

   (a)   No toy may be sold, offered for sale or given away without
compensation which does not conform with the relevant provisions of the
electrical code sections of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago.

(Prior code § 100.1-4)

7-36-050 Angle of rotation.

   (a)   No toy may be sold, offered for sale, or given away without
compensation that provides for an angle of rotation of greater than ten
degrees from stationary in greater than one plane, if that part of the
toy that is designed for the user to sit or stand on or upon is
suspended from a perpendicular base or holding.

(Prior code § 100.1-5)

7-36-060 Dangerous coatings.

   (a)   A toy shall not, whether wholly or in part be made of or
impregnated with cellulose nitrate. This regulation shall not apply to a
ball of the kind used for ping-pong or table tennis.

   (b)   A toy shall not have any coating of paint which contains lead
or any compound of lead on a dried-weight basis of more than 0.06
percent of the total weight.

   (c)   A toy shall not have any coating of paint which contains
arsenic, soluble antimony, cadmium, mercury, chromium, barium, selenium,
or any soluble compound of any of the aforementioned elements on a
dried-weight basis of more than 0.05 percent of the total weight. The
expression "soluble" in relation to an element or compound means capable
of being dissolved by the method described by the National Bureau of
Standards.

   (d)   For the purposes of this ordinance, "paint" includes lacquer,
varnish and other similar substances.

(Prior code § 100.1-6)

7-36-070 Noise restrictions.

   (a)   No toy may be sold or offered for sale, or given away without
compensation, which produces noise on a continuous basis exceeding 85
decibels on the A scale, slow mode of operation, as measured one foot
distance from said toy; no form of toy gun, rifle, or other such device
which produces noise on an impulse or explosive basis exceeding 100
decibels as measured on the A scale, fast mode of operation as measured
one foot distance from said toy gun or other explosive device.

(Prior code § 100.1-7)

7-36-080 Enforcement.

   (a)   This chapter shall be enforced by the commissioner of business
affairs and consumer protection who will promulgate certain rules and
regulations for the enforcement thereof.

(Prior code § 100.1-8; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 47220, Art. V, § 5)

7-36-090 Toy defined.

   (a)   For the purpose of this ordinance, a toy is defined as any
article that is primarily intended for recreational use by children
under the age of 15 years. This ordinance shall specifically exempt
hobbies, crafts, sporting equipment and games.

(Prior code § 100.1-9)

7-36-100 Standards for beds, cribs, playpens and other enclosed devices.

   No bed, crib, playpen or other enclosed device that is intended for
use by an infant may be sold, offered for sale or given away without
compensation unless such article meets the following standards.

   (a)   The space between the vertical and horizontal bars or slats,
that may create such enclosure, shall be no more than two and
three-eighths inches apart.

   (b)   Such article shall be made out of nontoxic materials that
resist peeling and cracking.

(Prior code § 100.1-11)

7-36-110 Standards for full size cribs.

   No full size crib may be sold, offered for sale or given away without
compensation unless it complies with the standards established by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in Part 1508 – Requirements for Full
Size Baby Cribs (38 FR 32129, November 21, 1973, as amended at 38 FR
35454, December 28, 1974).

(Prior code § 100.1-12)

7-36-112 Crib bumper pads.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

      (1)   "Crib" means any bed with barred or latticed sides designed
for an infant or toddler.

      (2)   "Crib bumper pad" means any padding material, including but
not limited to a roll of stuffed fabric, which is designed for placement
within a crib to cushion one or more of the crib's inner sides adjacent
to the crib mattress.

   (b)   No person shall expose for sale, sell, lease, offer for sale or
offer for lease any crib bumper pad as a separate item or as an
accessory to a crib in the city of Chicago.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less
than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 9-8-11, p. 7639, § 1)

7-36-115 Child passenger safety seat sale or leases.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

      (1)   "Child Passenger Safety Seat" means any device which meets
the standards of the United States Department of Transportation designed
to restrain, seat or position children in a vehicle, including, but not
limited to, a booster seat.

      (2)   "Consumer" means any person who purchases a child passenger
safety seat for personal, family or household use. The term does not
include any person who purchases child passenger safety seats primarily
for the purpose of reselling or leasing such seats.

      (3)   "Certified Child Passenger Safety Technician" and "C.P.S.T."
means any person who has completed and maintained a certificate in the
32-hour National Standardized Child Passenger Safety Training Course
developed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
(N.H.T.S.A.), which is designed to provide the basic technical skills,
experience and knowledge of the proper use and installation of child
passenger safety seats.

      (4)   "Referral to Resource" means a list of child passenger
safety technician services both public and private available in the City
of Chicago. This list shall be a standardized form issued and kept
current by the City of Chicago that contains current resources and their
current contact information as well as information regarding the
importance of consulting a C.P.S.T. for each child passenger safety seat
installation.

   (b)   No person shall expose for sale, sell, lease, offer for sale or
offer for lease any Child Passenger Safety Seat within the City of
Chicago to any Consumer, unless such person has posted within twenty
(20) feet of any Child Passenger Safety Seat a Referral to Resource
document provided by the City of Chicago thereby assisting the Consumer
with finding a C.P.S.T. This subsection (b) shall not apply to
occasional sales, as that term is defined in Section 10-8-401 of this
Code, nor shall it apply to internet sales.

   (c)   No person shall expose for sale, sell, lease, offer for sale or
offer for lease any Child Passenger Safety Seat within the City of
Chicago to any Consumer that is expired, damaged, missing any parts
including the owner's manual, or is otherwise unfit for use for the safe
transport and restraint of children. This subsection (c) shall apply to
only occasional sales, as that term is defined in Section 10-8-401 of
this Code and secondhand dealers as that term is defined in Section
4-264-005.

   (d)   Persons that violate any of the foregoing sections shall be
issued a Notice to Correct by the department. Subsequent offenses shall
be punishable by a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00.

(Added Coun. J. 6-9-10, p. 93537, § 1)

7-36-120 Violation – Penalty.

   (a)   The violation of any of the foregoing sections shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00, and
the sale of each independent item which violates this section shall be
deemed a separate offense.

(Prior code § 100.1-13)

CHAPTER 7-38
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS – SANITARY OPERATING REQUIREMENTS

Article I. All Food Establishments

7-38-001   All food establishments.

7-38-005   Food requirements.

7-38-010   Food handler requirements.

7-38-011   Food sampling in retail food establishments.

7-38-012   Food service sanitation certificates.

7-38-015   Maintenance of premises.

7-38-020   Control of vermin and insects.

7-38-025   Equipment standards.

7-38-030   Compliance with city rules.

7-38-035   Submittal of plans and drawings.

7-38-040   Vehicle sanitation requirements.

7-38-060   Default beverage for children's meals.

7-38-065   Alcoholic liquor sales – Health and sanitary requirements.

7-38-070   Food sanitarians.

Article II. Mobile Food Vendors

Part A. General Provisions

7-38-075   Mobile food vendor vehicles.

7-38-080   Reserved.

7-38-085   Reserved.

7-38-090   Refrigeration and heating equipment.

7-38-095   Reserved.

7-38-100   Reserved.

7-38-105   Reserved.

7-38-110   Reserved.

7-38-115   Operational requirements.

7-38-117   Mobile food vehicle stands program.

7-38-120   Name and license number.

7-38-124   Refuse receptacles.

7-38-126   Inspections.

7-38-128   Enforcement.

Part B. Mobile Food Dispensers

7-38-130   Preparation and service of food and drink.

7-38-132   Sinks, water storage tanks and other plumbing requirements.

Part C. Mobile Food Preparers

7-38-134   Mobile food preparers – Operational requirements.

7-38-136   Mobile food trucks.

7-38-138   Servicing a mobile food truck.

Part D. Mobile Desserts Vendors

7-38-140   Mobile desserts vendor.

Part E. Produce Merchants

7-38-142   Produce merchants – Operational requirements – Unlawful acts.

7-38-144   Produce merchants – Record-keeping required.

7-38-146   Designating areas underserved by grocery stores.

Part F. Mobile Prepared Food Vendors

7-38-148   Mobile prepared food vendor.

Article III. Automatic Food – Vending Machines

7-38-150   Vending machines – Food manufacture, delivery and storage.

7-38-155   Reserved.

7-38-160   Reserved.

7-38-165   Reserved.

7-38-175   Reserved.

7-38-180   Reserved.

7-38-185   Reserved.

7-38-190   Water supply and plumbing requirements.

7-38-195   Reserved.

7-38-200   Reserved.

7-38-205   Reserved.

7-38-210   Reserved.

7-38-212   Water-vending machines – Location restriction.

7-38-214   Water-vending machines – Equipment and maintenance.

7-38-216   Reserved.

7-38-218   Reserved.

Article IV. Coffee Cart Vendors

7-38-220   Coffee carts – Required features.

7-38-225   Reserved.

7-38-230   Reserved.

7-38-235   Reserved.

7-38-240   Reserved.

Article V. Slaughtering, Rendering and Packing Establishments

7-38-460   Reserved.

7-38-465   Reserved.

7-38-470   Reserved.

7-38-475   Reserved.

7-38-480   Reserved.

7-38-485   Reserved.

7-38-495   Notice to alderman.

7-38-500   Unlicensed premises – Slaughtering permitted when.

7-38-510   Slaughtering on public ways prohibited.

7-38-515   Slaughterhouse – Maintenance and construction.

7-38-520   Hours for slaughtering.

7-38-525   Method of slaughtering.

7-38-530   Method of condensation.

7-38-535   Offensive gases and odors prohibited.

7-38-540   Reserved.

7-38-545   Entry of carcasses prohibited.

7-38-550   Conveyance of refuse.

7-38-555   Sleeping on premises prohibited.

7-38-560   Inspection.

7-38-570   Abatement of nuisance.

Article VI. Penalty for Violation of Chapter Provisions

7-38-575   Violation – Penalty.

ARTICLE I. ALL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS (7-38-001 et seq.)

7-38-001 All food establishments.

   The provisions of this article shall apply to all food
establishments, unless otherwise specified. The term "food
establishment" shall include all establishments, businesses and vehicles
required to be licensed pursuant to chapter 4-8.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-005 Food requirements.

   All food shall be obtained from approved sources as defined by the
rules of the Department of Health. All food shall be protected from
contamination and the elements while being stored, prepared, displayed
or sold at a food establishment and during transportation to or between
such establishments or vending machine locations, and so shall all food
equipment, containers, utensils, food-contact surfaces and devices and
vehicles, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, Chapters
4-8, 7-40 and 7-42 of this Code and the rules of the Department of
Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, §
159; Amend Coun. J. 6-6-12, p. 28356, § 13; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

7-38-010 Food handler requirements.

   All employees who enter food processing areas, who prepare food,
serve or handle in any manner unwrapped or unenclosed foods or utensils
or receptacles or who handle foods on food-transporting vehicles shall
maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness and conform to hygienic
practices prescribed in and comply with all of the food handler
requirements of the code and in the rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-011 Food sampling in retail food establishments.

   Samples of food may be offered to persons within a licensed retail
food establishment. If time/temperature control for safety food is
prepared, held for service, or served, it shall be under the supervision
of a person who holds a Department of Health food service sanitation
certificate.

(Added Coun. J. 4-16-97, p. 42588; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-012 Food service sanitation certificates.

   All food establishments shall employ and have present on the premises
at all times that time/temperature control for safety food is being
prepared, held for service, or served, a person in charge who holds a
Department of Health food service sanitation certificate. Certification
shall be achieved by successfully completing a Department approved food
safety course and monitored examination offered by a Department approved
provider and payment of a $45.00 certificate fee to the Department of
Health. Each certificate shall expire five years from the date that the
individual successfully completes the examination. Every such original
and valid food service sanitation certificate shall be posted
conspicuously in that part of the retail food establishment to which the
public has access. A food service sanitation certificate may be
suspended or revoked by the Department of Health when an establishment
under the control of the certificate holder has a record of repeated
violations of this Code or the rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043, §
2; Amend Coun. J. 5-12-99, p. 2225, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

7-38-015 Maintenance of premises.

   Food establishment premises, including outdoor premises, shall be
maintained in a clean, safe manner. Adequate facilities within every
establishment shall be provided for the storage of employees’ personal
belongings. The Commissioner of Health shall prescribe rules for the
maintenance of food establishments.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-020 Control of vermin and insects.

   (a)   In accordance with this section and the rules of the Department
of Health, all necessary control measures shall be used to effectively
minimize flying insects, and eliminate the presence of rodents, roaches
and other vermin and crawling insects on the premises of all food
establishments, in food-transporting or mobile food vehicles and vending
machines.

   (b)   All garbage and rubbish shall be stored, removed and disposed
of as prescribed in this section and the rules of the Department of
Health.

   (c)   Every food establishment shall maintain a log containing a
written record of the control measures performed by exterminators. The
food establishment shall keep the log on the premises of the food
establishment and shall make the log open to inspection by the
Department of Health, upon request. The content of the log shall be
prescribed in the rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p.
23785; Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p.
31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-025 Equipment standards.

   All equipment and utensils shall be so designed and of such material
and workmanship as to be smooth, easily cleanable, durable, kept in good
repair, and in all other ways compliant with the rules of the Department
of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

7-38-030 Compliance with city rules.

   (a)   The floors, walls and ceilings of all rooms in which food or
drink is stored, sold, offered for sale, cooked or prepared, or in which
utensils and equipment are washed, shall be constructed and maintained
in a manner prescribed by the building code of the City of Chicago and
the rules of the Department of Health to ensure protection against
contamination.

   (b)   All rooms in which food and drink are prepared or in which
utensils are washed, rinsed, and sanitized shall be well-lighted. All
food establishments shall have adequate ventilation systems which comply
with the applicable requirements of the ventilation and fire prevention
codes of the City of Chicago and rules of the Department of Health.

   (c)   All food establishments shall have adequate plumbing facilities
that comply with all the requirements of the plumbing chapter of the
Municipal Code of Chicago and the rules of the Department of Health.

   (d)   All food establishments, including mobile food vendors, shall
comply with all applicable rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

7-38-035 Submittal of plans and drawings.

   No new food establishment shall be constructed nor shall any major
alteration or replacement of existing equipment affecting the sanitary
requirements of this chapter or the rules of the Department of Health be
permitted unless plans or complete drawings of this construction,
alteration or replacement are submitted to the Department of Health and
approved prior to such remodeling or construction. This requirement does
not apply to an architect or structural engineer who has completed the
Department of Buildings’ self-certification program.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-040 Vehicle sanitation requirements.

   All vehicles used by food establishments for the carrying or
transportation of foods shall comply with this chapter and the rules of
the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, §
2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-060 Default beverage for children's meals.

   (a)   In this section:

   "Children's meal" means a combination of food items, sold for a
single price, intended for consumption by children.

   "Default beverage" means a beverage included by default or presented
as an option as part of a children's meal absent a specific request by
the purchaser of the children's meal for an alternative beverage.

   "Restaurant" means a retail food establishment that prepares and
serves or vends food directly to consumers.

   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a restaurant shall
include one of the following beverages with a children's meal sold by
the restaurant:

      (1)   water with no added natural or artificial sweeteners;

      (2)   sparkling water with no added natural or artificial
sweeteners;

      (3)   flavored water with no added natural or artificial
sweeteners;

      (4)   nonfat or 1% dairy milk containing no more than 130 calories
per container or serving offered for sale;

      (5)   nondairy milk alternatives:

         (A)   with no added natural or artificial sweeteners;

         (B)   containing no more than 130 calories per container or
serving as offered for sale; and

         (C)   meeting the standards for the National School Lunch
Program as set forth in 7 C.F.R. 210.10; or

      (6)   100% fruit or vegetable juice or juice combined with water
or carbonated water, with no added sweeteners, in a serving size of no
more than 8 ounces.

   (c)   A restaurant may include a beverage with a children's meal that
is not listed under subsection (b) upon the meal purchaser's request.

   (d)   Every beverage listed or displayed on a restaurant menu or
in-store advertisement for a children's meal shall be one of the default
beverages listed in subsection (b).

   (e)   During any inspection of a restaurant by Department of Health,
the Department of Health shall inspect the restaurant to determine
whether it complies with this section.

(Added Coun. J. 1-26-22, p. 43252, § 1)

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed former §
7-38-060, which pertained to hospitals, day nurseries, day care centers
and nursing homes.

7-38-065 Alcoholic liquor sales – Health and sanitary requirements.

   Every person licensed under Section 4-60-100 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago who shall sell any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises of such licensee, shall keep and maintain the licensed premises
equipped with hot and cold water and adequate washing and sanitizing
facilities for the cleaning of glasses and service utensils, shall
provide adequate toilet facilities, and shall comply with the health and
sanitary requirements of the Municipal Code of Chicago and the rules of
the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 74459, Art. IV, § 3)

7-38-070 Food sanitarians.

   Any food sanitarian employed by the City of Chicago shall be
empowered to enforce applicable provisions of this chapter, chapters
4-8, 7-40, 7-42, and the rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

ARTICLE II. MOBILE FOOD VENDORS (7-38-075 et seq.)

Part A. General Provisions (7-38-075 et seq.)

7-38-075 Mobile food vendor vehicles.

   (a)   Every vehicle used by a mobile food vendor in the conduct of
such business shall comply with the rules of the Department of Health
and the following requirements:

      (1)   the interior floor, walls and ceiling of each vehicle shall
be of smooth, not readily corrodible, impervious material capable of
withstanding repeated washing and scrubbing and shall be finished in a
light color;

      (2)   the vehicle shall not be used for any purpose other than a
mobile food vendor business; and

      (3)   all food service equipment utilized by the mobile food
vendor shall be of easily cleanable construction and shall be maintained
in good repair and a clean condition.

   (b)   Each mobile food vehicle shall be enclosed with top and sides.

   (c)   Each mobile food vehicle shall be registered as a commercial
vehicle and any person who operates such vehicle must have a valid
driver’s license issued by the state of Illinois or another state,
district or territory of the United States.

   (d)   Each mobile food vehicle shall be inspected and maintained by a
licensed professional, including mechanics and, if applicable, by
professionals who install and maintain fire prevention equipment, and
propane tanks on mobile food vehicles, as often as necessary but not
less than every ninety (90) calendar days, and copies of the last four
maintenance reports must be kept in the vehicle at all times while the
vehicle is in use.

   (e)   There shall be no more than 40 pounds of propane in a mobile
food vehicle.

   (f)   Prior to the construction, remodeling, purchase or use of any
mobile food truck or the addition of any new equipment for the storage
or preparation of food in a mobile food vehicle, plans for such vehicle
must be submitted to the Department of Health, and, if the mobile food
vehicle uses propane, natural gas, or has a fire suppression hood, the
Fire Department for approval.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984,
§ 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-080 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 4, repealed § 7-38-080,
which pertained to mobile food vendor prohibited districts.

7-38-085 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 4, repealed § 7-38-085,
which pertained to the preparation and service of food and drink.

7-38-090 Refrigeration and heating equipment.

   All mobile food vendor vehicles shall have adequate mechanical or
other refrigeration equipment as approved by the Department of Health,
and such equipment shall be capable of maintaining time/temperature
control for safety food in accordance with the rules of the Department
of Health.

   All mobile food vendor vehicles shall have adequate mechanical or
other heating equipment as approved by the Department of Health, and
such equipment shall be capable of maintaining time/temperature control
for safety food in accordance with the rules of the Department of
Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, §
2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

7-38-095 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-095,
which pertained to milk and milk products.

7-38-100 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-100,
which pertained to single-service food utensils.

7-38-105 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-105,
which pertained to information required on wrapper.

7-38-110 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-110,
which pertained to storage provisions.

7-38-115 Operational requirements.

   (a)   Mobile food vehicles shall move from place to place upon the
public ways and shall not be operated at a fixed location except as
otherwise provided herein.

   (b)   Mobile food vehicle stops shall be made only to service
customers and shall not exceed (i) a total of four hours or (ii) the
maximum permitted period for parking, whichever is lesser, in any one
block.

   (c)   No mobile food vehicle shall be equipped with any electronic
sound-amplifying device. Permitted advertising devices shall be limited
to bells, whistles, horns or other musical or noise-making devices which
do not employ any electronic sound-amplifying device. Mobile food
vehicles employing musical or noise- making devices shall only sound
said devices when traversing the public way and shall be prohibited from
sounding said devices while standing or parked.

   (c-5) No mobile food vehicle equipped with a musical or noise-making
device shall sound any such device at any location between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., or at any time within 200 feet of a hospital,
nursing home or while traversing any zone of quiet established under
Chapter 10-8 of the Municipal Code.

   (d)   Unless specifically allowed in a mobile food vehicle stand, no
sales from such mobile food vehicle shall be made between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.

   (e)   No operator of a mobile food vehicle shall park or stand such
vehicle:

      (i)   within 20 feet of a crosswalk;

      (ii)   within 30 feet of a stop light or stop sign; or

      (iii)   adjacent to a protected bike lane.

   (f)   No operator of a mobile food vehicle shall park or stand such
vehicle within 200 feet of any principal customer entrance to a
restaurant which is located on the street level; provided, however, the
restriction in this subsection shall not apply between 12 a.m. and 2
a.m.

   Restaurant, for purposes of this section, means any public place at a
fixed location kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the
public as a place where food and drink is prepared and served for the
public for consumption on or off the premises pursuant to the required
licenses. Such establishments include, but are not limited to,
restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, dining rooms, eating houses,
short order cafes, luncheonettes, grills, tearooms and sandwich shops.

   (g)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no sale shall be made from
a mobile food vehicle except from the curb side thereof, and then only
when such vehicle is standing or parked in a legal parking spot.

   (h)   Mobile food vehicles that are being used to provide food and
drink to persons engaged in construction in the City of Chicago and
which are not equipped with noise-making devices are exempt from the
provisions of (f) above, provided such vehicles are standing or parked
in a legal parking spot.

   (i)   Any person who violates or resists the enforcement of
subsection (c-5) of this section shall be fined as provided in section
7-38-128 of this Code for each violation. A separate and distinct
offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each and every day on
which any person shall be guilty of such violation; provided that, the
intervening days between when a license holder whose license has been
suspended applies for restoration of the license and a reinspection has
been conducted by the Department of Health shall not constitute separate
offenses if the violation was found to be corrected upon reinspection. A
motor vehicle that is used in a second or subsequent violation of
subsection (c-5) of this section shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment under this subsection (i). The owner of record of such
vehicle shall be liable to the City for an administrative penalty of
$750.00 in addition to fees for towing and storage of the vehicle as
provided in Section 9-92-080. Whenever a police officer has probable
cause to believe that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this subsection, the police officer shall provide for the
towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the City or its
agents. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the police officer
shall notify any person identifying himself as the owner of the vehicle
at the time of the alleged violation or the person who is found to be in
control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is
such person, of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right
to request a preliminary hearing to be conducted under Section 2-14-132
of this Code by serving such person with a copy of the vehicle
impoundment seizure report. Section 2-14-132 shall apply whenever a
motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this section. A
violation of any provision of this section other than subsection (c-5)
shall be punishable under Section 7-38-575.

   (j)   Mobile food vehicles shall be operated only by the mobile food
vehicle licensee or by an authorized employee of such licensee.

   (k)   (1)   No operation of a mobile food vehicle is allowed on any
private property unless all of the following requirements are met:

         (i)   The mobile food vendor has obtained the express written
consent of the owner or lessee of such property and such written consent
is kept in the mobile food vehicle at all times when the vehicle is on
the property;

         (ii)   The mobile food vendor is in compliance with all
applicable requirements of the Chicago Zoning Ordinance; and

         (iii)   The mobile food vendor is in compliance with subsection
(b)(i) and, except for the private property that allows the operation of
the mobile food vehicle, subsection (f) of this section.

      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision in subsection (k)(1), no
operation of a mobile food vehicle is allowed on a privately-owned: (i)
vacant lot, or (ii) lot with a vacant building. For purposes of this
subsection, the term "vacant building" has the meaning ascribed to the
term in Chapter 14X-2 of this Code.

   (l)   Each mobile food vehicle shall be equipped with a permanently
installed functioning Global- Positioning-System (GPS) device which
sends real-time data to any service that has a publicly-accessible
application programming interface (API). For purposes of enforcing this
chapter, a rebuttable presumption shall be created that a mobile food
vehicle is parked at places and times as shown in the data tracked from
the vehicle's GPS device.

   (m)   An operator of a mobile food vehicle operating at the staging
area, as delineated by the Commissioner of Aviation, of O'Hare
International Airport shall be exempt from the requirements of
paragraphs (b) and (f) above. The Commissioners of Business Affairs and
Consumer Protection and Aviation shall have authority to jointly
designate any other exempt location(s) on O'Hare International Airport
property, provided that: (i) they conclude that such location(s) will
not interfere with traffic or public safety, and (ii) they conclude that
such location(s) are appropriate for mobile food vehicles based on the
objective conditions and circumstances at each such location, and (iii)
no such designation shall include an airport terminal. The Commissioner
of Aviation is hereby authorized to assess a fee of $200.00 per year,
subject to escalation at the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers (CPI-U) on any operator of a mobile food vehicle at O'Hare
International Airport and to adopt rules to govern the operation of such
mobile food vehicles.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 9-5-01, p. 66021, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81824, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326,
§ 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 4-19-17, p.
46742, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-26-17, p. 53252, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p. 88803, § 15; Amend
Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 91; Amend Coun. J. 7-24-19, p.
3646, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 1-15-20, p. 13000, § 6; Amend Coun. J.
7-22-20, p. 18957, § 4)

7-38-117 Mobile food vehicle stands program.

   (a)   A mobile food vehicle stands program ("program") is hereby
created as provided in this section.

   (b)   The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this
section:

      (1)   "Commissioner" means the City’s Commissioner of
Transportation.

      (2)   "Block" means both sides of the part of a street that lies
between two intersecting streets, as the term "street" is defined in
section 9-4-010 of this Code.

      (3)   "Stand" means a mobile food vehicle stand established by the
Commissioner pursuant to this section.

   (c)   The Commissioner is authorized, subject to the approval of the
City Council, to establish stands where mobile food vehicles may be
operated at all times or during certain specified periods, if, after
consulting with the alderman of the ward in which a proposed stand will
be located and the Department of Police, the Commissioner determines
that establishing such a stand: (1) will not create undue safety hazards
in the use of the street by vehicular or pedestrian traffic; (2) will
not impede the safe and efficient flow of traffic upon the street on
which the mobile food vehicle stand is proposed; and (3) will provide
benefit and convenience to the public. After engaging in the above
consultations and posting appropriate signs, the Commissioner may amend
the time of operation of mobile food vehicles at a mobile food stand. A
minimum of 5 such stands shall be established in each community area, as
such areas are designated in section 1-14-010 of this Code, that has 300
or more retail food establishments.

   (d)   The Commissioner shall designate mobile food vehicle stands by
appropriate signs or curb markings or both. It shall be unlawful to
stand or park a vehicle, other than mobile food vehicles, in violation
of signs posted, in any mobile food vehicle stands that the Commissioner
has designated by appropriate signs or markings; provided, however, that
this provision shall not apply to a vehicle engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers when such standing does not interfere
with a mobile food vehicle waiting to enter or about to enter into such
a stand.

   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, in a block
where a mobile food stand is established pursuant to this section, no
person shall operate a mobile food vehicle from any other place on the
public way in such block face except from the designated mobile food
stand

   (f)   Operators of mobile food vehicles that operate from a mobile
food stand shall be subject to the provisions of this section and all
applicable requirements of this chapter, including section
7-38-115(b)(i) except for the requirement in section 7-38-115(f).

   (g)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Business Affairs and
Consumer Protection shall have power to adopt rules as may be necessary
or useful for the proper administration and enforcement of this program,
including rules pertaining to the operation of mobile food vehicles from
a designated mobile food stand.

   (h)   The Commissioner and the Commissioner of Business Affairs and
Consumer Protection shall evaluate the effectiveness of the program and
may recommend changes as may be adopted by ordinance.

   (i)   The Commissioner of Transportation is authorized to establish a
mobile food vehicle stand within the side of the block where each of the
following addresses is located:

      (1)   3627 North Southport Avenue;

      (2)   3420 North Paulina Street, provided that the mobile food
vehicle stand at this location shall not be more than 40 feet in length;

      (3)   3241 North Lincoln Avenue;

      (4)   [Reserved.]

      (5)   1005 West Wrightwood Avenue;

      (6)   1030 West Fullerton Avenue;

      (7)   2342 North Stockton Drive;

      (8)   1262 North Milwaukee Avenue;

      (9)   1218 North Milwaukee Avenue;

      (10)   2135 West Division Street;

      (11)   1155 North Oakley Boulevard:

      (12)   1615 West Chicago Avenue;

      (13)   149 North Ashland Avenue:

      (14)   831 North Wells Street;

      (15)   930 North LaSalle Drive;

      (16)   355 West Chicago Avenue;

      (17)   450 North Cityfront Plaza Drive;

      (18)   729 – 829 North Larrabee Street;

      (19)   30 East Lake Street;

      (20)   West side of North Franklin Street, from a point 30 feet
north of West Washington Street, to a point 40 feet north thereof;

      (21)   437 South Columbus Drive;

      (22)   902 West Adams Street;

      (23)   436 West Taylor Street;

      (24)   1400 West Adams Street;

      (25)   1851 West Jackson Boulevard;

      (26)   150 West Van Buren Street;

      (27)   65 East Harrison Street;

      (28)   2500 North Cannon Drive;

      (29)   3628 North Broadway;

      (30)   1760 North Sheffield Avenue;

      (31)   200 South LaSalle Street;

      (32)   151 North Franklin Street;

      (33)   185 North Upper Columbus Drive;

      (34)   105 East Monroe Street, provided that the mobile food
vehicle stand at this location shall not be more than 40 feet in length;

      (35)   300 South Wabash Avenue, provided that the mobile food
vehicle stand at this location shall not be more than 40 feet in length;

      (36)   2220 West Campbell Park Drive;

      (37)   145 South Franklin Street, provided that the mobile food
vehicle stand at this location shall not be more than 40 feet in length;

      (38)   1002 South Paulina Street;

      (39)   1030 South Hamilton Avenue; and

      (40)   3601 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, provided that the mobile food
vehicle stand at this location shall not be more than 40 feet in length.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-14, p.
98037, § 10; Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24550, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
10-5-16, p. 33854, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-29-17, p. 44809, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 4-19-17, p. 47381, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-17, p. 59339, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 11-8-17, p. 59341, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 12-18-19, p. 12023, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
12-18-19, p. 12024, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-24-20, p. 15501, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 9-14-21, p. 35728, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-17-21, p. 41330, § 1)

7-38-120 Name and license number.

   Every mobile food vendor shall have the business name and license
number legibly affixed in letters and figures at least two inches in
height in a conspicuous place on each lateral side of such vendor’s
mobile vehicle.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984,
§ 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 4, repealed a former §
7-38-080, which pertained to sinks, water storage tanks, and other
plumbing requirements.

7-38-124 Refuse receptacles.

   The operator of a mobile food vendor vehicle shall maintain a
suitable, tight, non-absorbent washable receptacle for refuse. The
operator shall be responsible for sanitation of the environs of the
place of operation, if applicable, including the mobile food vehicle
stand area used by the operator. Said refuse receptacle shall be
adjacent to, but not an integral part of, the mobile food vendor
vehicle. The operator of a mobile food vendor vehicle shall dispose
refuse collected from the mobile food vendor vehicle and the environs of
the place of operation at a commissary approved by the Department of
Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, §
2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

Editor's note – Formerly § 7-38-125. Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2,
renumbered this provision as § 7-38-124.

7-38-126 Inspections.

   Mobile food vendors shall make their vehicles available for
inspection at the commissary approved or at a location determined by the
Department of Health on a schedule determined pursuant to rules of the
Department of Health.

   Nothing provided in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
Department of Health from conducting periodic inspection of mobile food
vendor vehicles as provided in this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984,
§ 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-128 Enforcement.

   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Commissioner
of Health shall have authority to adopt rules for the effective
implementation of Article II of this Chapter, including regulations
pertaining to construction and size requirements for mobile food
vehicles, and, with input from the Fire Department, regulations
pertaining to the installation, use, safety, and maintenance of propane
tanks and natural gas apparatus in a mobile food vehicle.

   (b)   Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, any person who
violates Article II of this Chapter shall be fined as provided in
Section 7-42-090 of this Code.

   (c)   In addition to any other city department that has enforcement
authority, the Department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection
and the Department of Transportation shall have authority to enforce
sections 7-38-115 and 7-38-117 of this Chapter.

   (d)   Any person who violates sections 7-38-115 and 7-38-117 of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 and not more than
$2,000.00 for each offense. Each day that the violation occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

Part B. Mobile Food Dispensers (7-38-130 et seq.)

7-38-130 Preparation and service of food and drink.

   (a)   No food shall be sold or served by a mobile food dispenser,
except the following:

      (1)   Individual portions of food that are totally enclosed in a
wrapper or container and which have been manufactured, prepared or
wrapped in a food establishment licensed by the city or a food
establishment which is operating under the state or local health
authority if the statute or ordinance regulating such food establishment
is substantially equivalent to this chapter. Such food may undergo a
final preparation step immediately prior to service to a consumer,
provided such final preparation steps conform with the rules of the
Department of Health.

      (2)   Coffee which is prepared in a licensed retail food
establishment, refrigerated cream which is kept in a covered
single-service container or an approved cream dispenser, and sugar which
is served only in wrapped individual packages or in a covered closed
pouring-spout type container, or in any other manner approved by the
Department of Health, which is effective in preventing contamination;

      (3)   Other bulk soft drinks or beverages which are dispensed from
an approved dispenser only. These approved bulk soft drink dispensers
shall be serviced and filled only at a licensed retail food
establishment which serves as a commissary for the mobile food
dispenser. The drink outlet on all bulk liquid dispensers shall be
protected from flies, dust and contamination;

      (4)   Individual portions of ice cream, ice milk, frozen dessert
mix, sundaes or other frozen desserts that are totally enclosed in a
wrapper or container and which have been manufactured, prepared or
wrapped in a licensed food establishment; and

      (5)   Whole and uncooked fruits or vegetables.

   (b)   No mobile food dispenser licensee or charitable food vendor
shall operate as a mobile food preparer without complying with all the
requirements to operate as a mobile food preparer.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984,
§ 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 3-23-22, p.
45620, § 4)

7-38-132 Sinks, water storage tanks and other plumbing requirements.

   All mobile food dispenser vehicles that engage in a final preparation
step as defined in the rules of the Department of Health shall be
equipped with a handwashing sink and an adequate supply of running hot
and cold water. The water storage tank shall be self-draining and
cleaned and flushed not less than twice in each six-month period. Liquid
waste from the handwashing sink shall be piped in fixed piping to a
liquid waste retention tank 50 percent larger than the water storage
tank. The liquid waste retention tank shall be located in a separate
area from food storage or food-contact surfaces. The connection between
the piping from the sink and the liquid waste retention container shall
be tight-fitting and comply with the plumbing sections of this Code and
the rules of the Department of Health. The liquid waste retention tank
shall be emptied daily or more often if necessary, and only into a
sanitary drainage facility in a manner and place approved by the
Department of Health.

   Liquid waste shall not be discharged from the retention tank when the
mobile food vehicle is in motion.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

Part C. Mobile Food Preparers (7-38-134 et seq.)

7-38-134 Mobile food preparers – Operational requirements.

   (a)   Any food sold or served by a mobile food preparer shall be
prepared or wrapped in the mobile food vehicle or in a licensed retail
food establishment.

   (b)   All time/temperature control for safety food products shall be
stored as provided in this chapter and rules of the Department of Health
until served to a customer. No food that is sold or served from a mobile
food preparer’s vehicle shall be stored or prepared in a residential
home.

   (c)   During transportation and storage, food equipment, supplies and
food contact surfaces shall be protected from contamination.

   (d)   Mobile food preparers shall list the food establishments from
where they purchase articles of food on a daily basis. Mobile food
preparers shall also keep in the vehicle copies of invoices from the
foods’ point of origin for thirty (30) calendar days for all food items
except that invoices for shellfish must be kept for ninety (90) calendar
days.

   (e)   Mobile food preparers shall also comply with the rules of the
Department of Health and the following food and equipment handling
requirements:

      (1)   no food shall be stored, displayed, or served from any place
other than the mobile food vehicle. The use of tables, benches, and
other such devices to display or serve food is prohibited;

      (2)   food condiments shall be protected from contamination. Food
condiments provided for customer self-service shall be prepackaged or
contained in approved dispensing devices;

      (3)   food products remaining after each day’s operation shall be
stored only in a licensed food establishment. Time/temperature control
for safety foods held at or above the temperature prescribed in the
rules of the Department of Health on a mobile food vehicle shall be
discarded at the end of the day;

      (4)   customer self-service of unpackaged foods is prohibited; and

      (5)   all mobile food trucks must have a person in charge present
who is a City of Chicago certified food service manager when food is
being prepared or served as required in Section 7-38-012. All other
employees who handle food or food equipment shall have food handler
training as required by the State of Illinois.

   (f)   The Commissioner of Health shall have authority to provide by
rules additional sanitation requirements and procedures for the
operation of mobile food preparers.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

7-38-136 Mobile food trucks.

   (a)   All mobile food trucks shall be equipped with a handwashing
sink and a three-compartment sink with a potable water system under
pressure. The system shall be of sufficient capacity to furnish enough
hot and cold water for food preparation, utensil cleaning and
sanitizing, and handwashing in accordance with the requirements of the
Department of Health. The water storage tank shall be self-draining and
cleaned and flushed once every 24 hours. The water inlet shall be
located so that it will not be contaminated by waste discharge, road
dust, oil, or grease and it shall be kept capped unless being filled.
The water inlet shall be provided with a transition connection of a size
or type that will prevent its use for any other service. All water
distribution pipes or tubing shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with the requirements of the plumbing sections of this Code.

   (b)   A mobile food truck shall be equipped with a permanently
installed liquid waste retention tank that is of at least 50 percent
larger capacity than the water supply tank. Liquid waste shall be piped
in a fixed piping to the liquid waste retention tank. Additionally, all
connections on the vehicle for servicing shall be of different size or
type than those used for supplying potable water. Liquid waste shall not
be discharged from the retention tank when the mobile food vehicle is in
motion. The connection between the piping from the sink and the liquid
waste tank shall be tight-fitting and comply with the plumbing sections
of this Code. The liquid waste tank shall be emptied daily or more often
if necessary, and only into a sanitary drainage facility in a manner and
place approved by the Department of Health. The liquid waste retention
tank shall be located in a separate area from food storage or
food-contact surfaces. The liquid waste retention tank connection shall
be located lower than the water inlet connection to preclude
contamination of the potable water system.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

7-38-138 Servicing a mobile food truck.

   (a)   The commissary linked to a mobile food preparer must have a
servicing area approved by the Department of Health. The servicing area
shall comply with the following requirements:

      (1)   the servicing area shall include at least an overhead
protection for any supplying, cleaning, or servicing operation. The
servicing area must have a location for the flushing and drainage of
liquid waste in accordance with the rules of the Department of Health;

      (2)   the surface of the servicing area shall be a smooth
non-absorbent material, such as concrete or machine-lad asphalt and
shall be maintained in good repair, kept clean, and graded to drain.

   (b)   The mobile food truck’s liquid waste retention tank must be
thoroughly flushed and drained during the servicing operation. All
liquid waste shall be discharged to a sanitary sewage disposal.

   (c)   The mobile food truck’s grease, where used, shall be drained
into a storage bin approved by the Department of Health. No grease shall
be discharged to the sanitary sewage disposal.

   (d)   Garbage disposals shall be installed in compliance with the
plumbing sections of this Code.

   (e)   A commissary must keep a log of all mobile food trucks serviced
by the commissary as well as the date and time the trucks were serviced.

   (f)   Mobile food trucks must report to a commissary at least once
per day for servicing.

(Added Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

Part D. Mobile Desserts Vendors (7-38-140 et seq.)

7-38-140 Mobile desserts vendor.

   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a mobile desserts
vendor, including a mobile frozen desserts vendor, shall comply with all
applicable requirements of this Code, including the requirements set
forth in Article II, Parts A and B of this Chapter, and the rules of the
Department of Health pertaining to mobile units handling frozen
desserts. A mobile desserts vendor is not required to comply with the
following requirements:

   (1)   the hot food storage and heating appliance requirements set
forth in Section 7-38-090;

   (2)   the sinks, water storage tanks and plumbing requirements set
forth in Section 7-38-132;

   (3)   the refuse receptacle requirements set forth in Section
7-38-124;

   (4)   the mobile food vehicle requirement set forth in 7-38-075(b);
and

   (5)   the additional vehicle requirements set forth in Section
4-8-293.

(Added Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3023, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 2-15-11, p. 20538,
§ 2; Amend Coun. J. 2-15-12, p. 20538, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p.
27485, § 162; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
9-24-15, p. 6984, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3; Amend
Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. II, § 2)

Part E. Produce Merchants (7-38-142 et seq.)

7-38-142 Produce merchants – Operational requirements – Unlawful acts.

   It shall be unlawful for any produce merchant to engage in any of the
following activities at any produce stand operated by such produce
merchant:

   (1)   To equip such produce stand with an electronic sound-amplifying
device;

   (2)   Unless specifically allowed by the Commissioner of Business
Affairs and Consumer Protection pursuant to objective criteria adopted
by rule, to make sales from such produce stand between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;

   (3)   To fail to comply with any applicable rules, including, but not
limited to, any rules governing the physical characteristics, size,
appearance or signage of a produce stand;

   (4)   To conduct business activities at such produce stand in a
manner that impedes the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;

   (5)   To use a portable generator at such produce stand or to connect
such produce stand to water, electrical or utility services of any type.
Provided, however, that a produce stand located on a private property
that contains a community garden or urban farm may use electricity in
compliance with all applicable provisions of this Code;

   (6)   To dump or dispose of water or waste onto the public way,
private or public property;

   (7)   To obstruct or block any sidewalk, driveway, public way,
parking zone, loading zone or drop-off zone at or in connection with the
operation of such produce stand;

   (8)   To sell any items at such produce stand other than: (i)
produce, or (ii) beverages meeting the definition of "prepackaged and
non-perishable food" in Section 4-8-010. Any such beverages sold shall
not contain more than 1 gram of added sugars per serving as the term
"added sugars" is defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration at 21
C.F.R. Section 101.9(c)(6)(iii);

   (9)   To combine any activity authorized under a mobile food vendor
license to engage in a produce merchant business with any activity for
which a different or separate license or permit is required under this
Code, other than a public way use permit issued under Chapter 10-28 of
this Code, including, but not limited to, any permit required in
connection with participation in any farmers market, as defined in
Section 4-12-010, or any outdoor special event, as defined in Section
10-8-335;

   (10)   To display produce items at such produce stand on the ground
or in any area other than the designated produce stand;

   (11)   To fail to affix and display in a conspicuous location at such
produce stand a copy of a valid mobile food vendor license to engage in
a produce merchant business, and, if the produce stand is on the public
way, a valid public way use permit issued by the Department of Business
Affairs and Consumer Protection;

   (12)   To use or to cause to be used any open fire or flame at such
produce stand, including, but not limited to, any candle, open-flame
heating device, open-flame illuminating device, torch or similar object;

   (13)   To allow such produce stand to touch, lean against or be
affixed to any building, structure, vehicle or other fixture;

   (14)   To fail to keep the area within 20 feet of such produce stand
free of trash;

   (15)   To fail to keep on the licensee’s person, at all times when
such produce display stand is being set up, operated or disassembled,
proof that the owner of the property on which such produce display stand
is located has given the licensee written permission to erect and
operate such produce display stand at that specific location at that
specific time, or that the licensee has been issued a public way use
permit for the operation of a produce stand at that specific location;

   (16)   To exceed the scope of any written permission given to the
licensee by the owner concerning the operation of such produce stand on
the owner’s property, or the scope of any public way use permit;

   (17)   Except in conjunction with and accessory to a community garden
or urban farm, to operate a produce stand directly in front of or
immediately adjacent to any fixed business engaged in the business of
selling the same produce as sold at the produce stand, or to operate a
produce stand within 200 feet of another produce stand.

   (18)   To sell produce from a community garden or urban farm unless
the community garden or urban farm utilizes raised beds or engineered
barriers to separate the growing media from the naturally formed or
deposited soil.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-11, p. 28654, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-25-12, p. 31326,
§ 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-20-16, p. 28718, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-19, p. 96592, § 18; Amend Coun. J.
6-21-23, p. 1515, § 3)

7-38-144 Produce merchants – Record-keeping required.

   All persons engaged in a produce merchant business shall keep and
maintain a written record identifying, for each produce stand in
operation on any given day, the date, time and location of such
operation(s). Such written records shall also include a copy of the
written permission of the property owner authorizing the sale of produce
from the produce stand on such owner's property, as required under
subsection (15) of Section 7-38-142. The records required to be kept
under this section shall be maintained by the licensee throughout the
duration of the license period. Upon request by any authorized city
official, the licensee shall make such records immediately available for
inspection by such authorized city official.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-11, p. 28654, § 2)

7-38-146 Designating areas underserved by grocery stores.

   The Commissioner of Planning and Development shall (1) identify areas
underserved by grocery stores using data gathered by the Department of
Planning and Development, the Department of Health, the Department of
Business Affairs and Consumer Protection and other appropriate city
departments: (2) post and maintain on the city’s website a current list
or map of such areas, along with a summary statement of the data
supporting the designation of such area as an area that lacks adequate
access to fresh and healthy food; and (3) promptly notify the
Commissioner of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection in writing of
any change to such list or map.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-11, p. 28654, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-13, p.
67481, Art. I, § 18; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

Part F. Mobile Prepared Food Vendors (7-38-148 et seq.)

7-38-148 Mobile prepared food vendor.

   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a mobile prepared food
vendor shall comply with all applicable requirements of this Code,
including the requirements set forth in Article II, Parts A and B of
this chapter, and the rules of the Department of Health pertaining to
mobile units handling food. A mobile prepared food vendor is not
required to comply with the following requirements:

   (1)   the additional vehicle requirements set forth in Section
4-8-293;

   (2)   the mobile food vehicle requirement set forth in 7-38-075(b),
(c), (d), (e) and (f);

   (3)   the mobile food vehicle operational requirements in 7-38-115;

   (4)   the mobile food vehicle stands program in Section 7-38-117; and

   (5)   the sinks, water storage tanks and plumbing requirements set
forth in Section 7-38-132.

(Added Coun. J. 9-24-15, p. 6984, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

ARTICLE III. AUTOMATIC FOOD – VENDING MACHINES (7-38-150 et seq.)

7-38-150 Vending machines – Food manufacture, delivery and storage.

   All food offered for sale through vending machines shall be
manufactured, processed, prepared in and delivered from commissaries or
establishments which comply with the health and sanitation requirements
for food service establishments set forth in this Code and in the rules
of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-155 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-155,
which pertained to marking of food product wrappers.

7-38-160 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-160,
which pertained to dried milk products and nondairy coffee whiteners.

7-38-165 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-165,
which pertained to sanitary requirements – vending machine canisters and
food-contact surfaces.

7-38-175 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-175,
which pertained to sanitary requirements – nonreadily perishable
food-contact surfaces.

7-38-180 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-180,
which pertained to vending machine area maintenance.

7-38-185 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-185,
which pertained to vending machine construction, design and maintenance.

7-38-190 Water supply and plumbing requirements.

   All water used in vending machines shall be supplied under pressure
properly connected to the city water supply. All plumbing connections
and fittings shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
that portion of the Municipal Code relating to water supply and
distribution.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, §
1.9; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-195 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-195,
which pertained to trash and waste disposal.

7-38-200 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-200,
which pertained to refrigeration requirements.

7-38-205 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-205,
which pertained to employees – personal hygiene.

7-38-210 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-210,
which pertained to vending machines – out-of-service procedure.

7-38-212 Water-vending machines – Location restriction.

   No water-vending machine may be installed, operated or maintained,
except at a retail food establishment.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-214 Water-vending machines – Equipment and maintenance.

   (a)   Responsibility for ensuring compliance with the requirements of
this section shall be placed both on the owner of the machine and the
operator of the retail food establishment where a water-vending machine
is located.

   (b)   No water-vending machine shall be installed, used or
maintained, or permitted to be installed, used or maintained, unless
inspected and approved by the Departments of Health and Water
Management.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, §
1.9; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-216 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-216,
which pertained to water-vending machines – water containers.

7-38-218 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-218,
which pertained to water-vending machines – rules and regulations.

ARTICLE IV. COFFEE CART VENDORS (7-38-220 et seq.)

7-38-220 Coffee carts – Required features.

   Every coffee cart used by a coffee cart vendor in the conduct of said
business shall comply with rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-225 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-225,
which pertained to coffee flavorings.

7-38-230 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-230,
which pertained to hot water storage tank and wastewater tank.

7-38-235 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-235,
which pertained to sale of certain products from coffee carts prohibited

7-38-240 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-240,
which pertained to operation of coffee carts on public way prohibited.

ARTICLE V. SLAUGHTERING, RENDERING AND PACKING ESTABLISHMENTS* (7-38-460
et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed former
Article V, cold storage establishments, and renumbered this former
Article VI as Article V.

7-38-460 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-460,
which pertained to reports.

7-38-465 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-465,
which pertained to receiving and delivery requirements.

7-38-470 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-470,
which pertained to storage time limit.

7-38-475 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-475,
which pertained to time limit extension – report.

7-38-480 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-480,
which pertained to transfer restrictions.

7-38-485 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, repealed § 7-38-485,
which pertained to return to cold storage restricted.

7-38-495 Notice to alderman.

   Thirty (30) calendar days before a wholesale food establishment
license which authorizes an applicant to engage in the business of a
slaughtering, rendering and packing establishment may be issued to an
applicant who has not been previously licensed to engage in such
business, the city clerk shall mail a notice of such application to the
alderman representing the ward in which the applicant intends to engage
in such business, and to the alderman whose ward or any part thereof is
within a radius of three miles from the proposed location for which
application is made to carry on such business.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-500 Unlicensed premises – Slaughtering permitted when.

   The slaughtering of animals for food shall not be permitted or
conducted in any place in the city other than in a duly licensed
slaughterhouse.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, §
146; Amend Coun. J. 10-28-15, p. 11951, Art. X, § 10; Amend Coun. J.
12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3)

7-38-510 Slaughtering on public ways prohibited.

   No animals shall be slaughtered, or the meat or any part thereof
dressed, or hung, wholly or partly, within any public way or place; nor
shall any blood or dirty water or other substance from such animals,
meat or place of killing, or the appurtenances thereof, be allowed to
run, fall, or be in any such public way or place.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-515 Slaughterhouse – Maintenance and construction.

   Every slaughterhouse or any part thereof shall at all times be kept
adequately and thoroughly ventilated. No blood shall be allowed to
remain therein over night. Adequate underground connections shall be
made from every such building with a public sewer, and the floor of any
building on which slaughtering is done and any yard connected therewith
shall be cemented and paved with brick or other suitable material so as
not to absorb blood and so as to carry all liquids into the sewers.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-520 Hours for slaughtering.

   No owner or person in possession, charge or control of a
slaughterhouse shall slaughter animals for food between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or on Sundays, without first notifying the
Department of Buildings.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-525 Method of slaughtering.

   The keeping and slaughtering of livestock, the preparation and
keeping of all meat, birds and fowls, the rendering of all animal
matter, and the manufacture of glue and all byproducts from animal
matter, shall be conducted in the manner which is, or is generally
reputed or known to be, the best adapted to secure and continue their
safety and wholesomeness as food, and to avoid all offensiveness of such
keeping, slaughtering, rendering and manufacturing. Blood from
slaughtered animals shall not be allowed to flow into any sewer or into
the Chicago River or any of its branches, but while still fresh shall be
treated so as not to become offensive.

   All offensive odors arising from the handling of meat or other animal
matter, melting or rendering, and the treating of and caring for offal,
blood or any other material stored or manufactured, shall be destroyed
by combustion, condensation or other means equally effective, and
according to the best and most approved means and processes, and shall
not be allowed to escape into the outside air.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-530 Method of condensation.

   In the event that condensation shall be adopted as a method of
destroying offensive odors or gases, the method of condensation employed
shall be as follows:

   Every rendering establishment shall use tank or other suitable
airtight condensing appliances for condensers. The said appliances shall
have an overflow connecting with a sewer, and shall have a feed water
pipe of sufficient diameter by which a continuous stream of cold water
shall pass into the condenser and

escape through the said overflow at or near the top. All gases generated
in the process of boiling shall be carried to and entered into the
bottom of and under the body of water contained by said condenser. Such
gases as are not condensed in the water shall be carried through another
pipe connected with the top of the condenser, to the boilers or other
places where heat of not less than 600 degrees Fahrenheit is maintained,
and shall there pass through such fire and be consumed. While the
condenser is in use, it shall be obligatory on the part of the user to
allow sufficient water to flow through the condenser to maintain a
temperature not higher than 100 degrees Fahrenheit.

   A condenser of the spray, jet or other suitable pattern shall be
connected with all dryers, and a fan or pump shall draw the vapors from
the dryer and force them through such-condenser, the water from which
shall pass into the sewer, and a sufficient quantity of water shall be
used to condense thoroughly any and all vapors and odors conveyed
thereto.

   To the end that a proper inspection may be readily made by the
authorities of the temperature maintained in such condensers there shall
be attached to each of such condensers an automatic or self-registering
thermometer of such a character as will automatically keep a daily
record of the temperature maintained in each such condenser at all times
during the use thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 4-15-15, p. 106130, §
7)

7-38-535 Offensive gases and odors prohibited.

   No person shall boil any offal, swill or bones, nor any fat, tallow
or lard, except while the same is fresh and otherwise inoffensive, nor
shall the business of bone crushing, bone boiling, bone grinding, bone
burning, shell burning or gut cleaning, nor the skinning of or making of
glue from any dead animal or part thereof, nor the storage or keeping of
scrap, fat or greases or offensive animal matter be permitted or
conducted at any place within the limits of the city, or within one mile
thereof, in such a manner as to generated any offensive or deleterious
gas, vapor, deposit or exhalation that is dangerous or detrimental to
life or health.

   It shall constitute, and it is hereby declared, a nuisance for any
person so to steam or boil or in any way render any offal or tainted or
damaged lard or tallow, or so to steam or render any animal substances,
as to occasion any offensive smell, or to steam or boil or render any
substance which by undergoing such process so taints the air as to
render it unwholesome or offensive to the smell or detrimental to
health, within the limits of the city, or within a distance of one mile
therefrom.

   Every person engaged in the business of boiling or rendering of fat,
lard or animal matter shall cause the scrap or residuum to be so dried
or otherwise prepared as effectually to deprive such material of all
offensive odors, and to preserve the same entirely inoffensive
immediately after the removal from the receptacles in which the
rendering process may be conducted.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-540 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-38-540,
which pertained to diseased cattle.

7-38-545 Entry of carcasses prohibited.

   No person shall bring, or cause to be brought, into any
slaughterhouse in the city the carcass of any dead animal.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-38-550 Conveyance of refuse.

   No offal or butcher’s refuse shall be conveyed through any public way
or public place within the city without a permit from the Department of
Buildings.

   Vehicles conveying such refuse shall be constructed of one or more
tight compartments, each of which compartments shall be covered with a
wooden or sheet metal cover attached to such compartments by substantial
hinges.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-555 Sleeping on premises prohibited.

   No person shall use for the housing, sheltering and harboring of its
employees or other persons any packing or slaughterhouse or any place
which is occupied for the purpose of slaughtering or rendering cattle,
sheep or hogs, or of dressing, cleaning, treating or preparing for
shipment or canning meats and other foodstuffs by hand or machinery, or
cause or permit same to be used as sleeping quarters or living
apartments by such employees or other persons. Any such house or place
so used or occupied for sleeping or living purposes is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.

   Whenever any such nuisance shall be found upon any premises within
the City, the Department of Buildings is hereby authorized and directed
to cause the same to be summarily abated in such a manner as it may
direct.

   For the purpose of carrying the foregoing provisions into effect, it
shall be the duty of the Department of Buildings to cause to be detailed
a sufficient number of police immediately upon complaint of any
individual. These police shall make a thorough and systematic
examination of any such plant or plants and building or buildings and
ascertain and report any such violations of this section, and for this
purpose investigators shall be permitted at all times to visit or enter
upon any building, lot or ground within the City limits and make
examination thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 1-27-21, p. 26741, Art. II, § 10)

7-38-560 Inspection.

   The Department of Buildings, or any of its authorized employees,
shall be permitted entrance at all hours of the day or night to all
buildings used for the business of a slaughtering, packing and rendering
establishment, and shall further be permitted to make free and
unrestrained examination of all apparatus or utensils used in such
business, or in the disposition of gases generated in such business, and
all matters and things relating to the health of the community.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

7-38-570 Abatement of nuisance.

   In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building or upon
any ground or other premises used for the slaughtering or rendering, 24
hours notice shall be given in writing, signed by the Commissioner of
the Department of Buildings, to the owner or occupant of such building
or other premises, where he is known and can be found, to remove such
nuisance. In case of his neglect or refusal to abate the same, in
accordance with such notice, the Commissioner of the Department of
Buildings is hereby authorized in his discretion to cause the same to be
summarily abated in such manner as he may direct, and such person shall
be chargeable with the expenses which may be incurred in the abatement
or removal of such nuisance, to be collected by suit or otherwise, in
addition to the fine and penalty provided for.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
3)

ARTICLE VI. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS* (7-38-575 et
seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 3, renumbered this
former Article VII as Article VI.

7-38-575 Violation – Penalty.

   The penalty for violations of this chapter is set forth in Section
7-42-090.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81824, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 3)

CHAPTER 7-39
RESERVED*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-14-08, p. 28639, § 1, repealed Ch. 7-39,
which pertained to miscellaneous food establishments.

CHAPTER 7-40
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS – CARE OF FOODS*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, amended and renumbered the
provisions of former Ch. 4-9 and created a new Ch. 7-40 to read as
herein set out. Former Ch. 4-9 pertained to care of foods. Coun. J.
12-9-92, p. 25464, amended this Chapter as formerly numbered.

Article I. General Provisions

7-40-005   Protection of food.

7-40-010   Unwholesome or adulterated drugs or food.

7-40-015   Reserved.

7-40-020   Reporting of unwholesome food.

7-40-025   Confiscation of unwholesome food.

7-40-030   Reserved.

7-40-035   Reserved.

7-40-040   Reserved.

7-40-045   Reserved.

7-40-050   Misrepresentation prohibited.

7-40-060   Animals in retail food establishments.

Article II. Meat

7-40-065   Compliance required – Inspections.

7-40-070   Department of Agriculture inspection – Required.

7-40-075   Condition of meat.

7-40-080   Immature calves, pigs and lambs – Sales restrictions.

7-40-085   Markets and stables – Sanitary requirements.

7-40-090   Reserved.

Article III. Water

7-40-095   Reserved.

7-40-100   Reserved.

7-40-105   Reserved.

7-40-110   Drinking Water.

7-40-115   Drinking fountains.

7-40-120   Use of impure water.

Article IV. Poultry

7-40-125   Reserved.

7-40-130   Reserved.

7-40-135   Poultry – License required – Sanitary requirements.

7-40-140   Reserved.

7-40-150   Reserved.

7-40-155   Reserved.

7-40-160   Reserved.

7-40-165   Reserved.

7-40-175   Reserved.

7-40-180   Reserved.

7-40-185   Reserved.

7-40-190   Reserved.

7-40-195   Reserved.

7-40-200   Reserved.

7-40-205   Reserved.

7-40-210   Reserved.

7-40-215   Reserved.

7-40-220   Reserved.

7-40-225   Reserved.

7-40-230   Reserved.

7-40-235   Reserved.

7-40-240   Reserved.

7-40-245   Reserved.

Article V. Frozen Desserts and Mixes

7-40-250   Reserved.

7-40-255   Reserved.

7-40-275   Reserved.

7-40-280   Reserved.

7-40-285   Reserved.

7-40-290   Reserved.

7-40-295   Reserved.

7-40-300   Compliance with city rules.

7-40-305   Reserved.

Article VI. Milk and Milk Products

7-40-310   Reserved.

7-40-325   Reserved.

7-40-330   Reserved.

7-40-340   Reserved.

7-40-345   Reserved.

7-40-350   Pasteurization of milk and milk products.

7-40-355   Reserved.

7-40-360   Reserved.

7-40-365   Reserved.

7-40-370   Reserved.

7-40-375   Milk and milk products shipped from beyond inspection limits.

7-40-380   Reserved.

Article VII. Violation of Chapter Provisions

7-40-390   Violation – Penalty.

ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS (7-40-005 et seq.)

7-40-005 Protection of food.

   All foods shall be protected from contamination in all places, other
than a private dwelling, where such foods are displayed, stored,
offered, prepared, cooked, or served.

   Food shall be protected in accordance with this chapter and the rules
of the Department of Health. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the necessary exposure of food during the immediate
processes of preparation, cooling, assortment or packing in a building
or place screened and free from insects, or during loading or unloading,
or during the actual process of servicing or selling.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
4)

7-40-010 Unwholesome or adulterated drugs or food.

   No person shall sell or deliver any drugs not conforming to the rules
and standards of the United States Pharmacopoeia, nor any food which is
unwholesome, or adulterated.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-015 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-015,
which pertained to sale or possession of unwholesome food.

7-40-020 Reporting of unwholesome food.

   It shall be the duty of every person knowing of any food being
brought into the city or sold in the city which is not sound, healthy or
wholesome for such food, to forthwith report such facts and the
particulars relating thereto to the Department of Health.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-025 Confiscation of unwholesome food.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, display, store, prepare,
cook, or serve any food which may be deemed unwholesome; and it shall be
the duty of the Department of Health to enter at any time and place,
other than a private dwelling, to seize and destroy all such food;
provided, that in case there is a doubt as to the condition of any such
food, the Department of Health may affix or cause to be affixed to the
food, or to the container in which it may be enclosed, a seal indicating
that the food and its containers have been held for further
investigation by the Department of Health. It shall be unlawful for any
person to alter, remove, deface or obliterate any seal so affixed, or to
remove the food or container so sealed to any other place, or to
instigate or permit the changing, removal, defacement or obliteration of
the seal or the removal to any other place of the food or the container
thereof, so sealed.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-030 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-030,
which pertained to storage of food.

7-40-035 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-035,
which pertained to salesrooms – sanitary requirements.

7-40-040 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-040,
which pertained to protection from contamination.

7-40-045 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-045,
which pertained to breadmaking.

7-40-050 Misrepresentation prohibited.

   (a)   No food shall knowingly be bought, sold, labeled, or any
representation made in respect thereof, under a false name or quality,
or under any false representation whatsoever respecting its
wholesomeness, soundness or safety for food or drink.

   (b)   Any retail food establishment which shall treat fresh fruits,
fresh vegetables and other raw food with a sulfiting agent must inform
consumers of such treatment pursuant to the rules of the Department of
Health.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-060 Animals in retail food establishments.

   Except as otherwise provided in Section 4-8-031 or any other
applicable law, it shall be unlawful for the owner of, or the person
having the care or custody of any animal, to suffer or permit such
animal to enter any portion of a premises that holds a retail food
establishment license; provided, that the person owning or operating
such store or place may permit a watchdog to remain therein if chained
or bound in such a way that the dog cannot come in contact with any of
the foodstuffs; provided, further, that when a person with a disability
is accompanied by a service animal, neither shall be denied the right of
entry and use of the facilities subject to § 35.136 of the Americans
with Disabilities Act (28 C.F.R. § 35.136). Any violation of this
provision will be enforced under Section 7-42-090.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 147; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p.
63286, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-17-21, p. 41315, § 1)

ARTICLE II. MEAT (7-40-065 et seq.)

7-40-065 Compliance required – Inspections.

   All meats and meat-food products sold or held for sale within the
City of Chicago shall comply with the standards, requirements and
regulations of the United States Department of Agriculture and the
Illinois Department of Agriculture, and the rules of the Department of
Health. The Department of Health shall make such inspections as are
necessary to ensure compliance with this section.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-070 Department of Agriculture inspection – Required.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell within the city or for
any dealer in meats or any manufacturer of meat-food products to
purchase, accept, hold or store within the city any carcass of cattle,
sheep, swine or goats, or any meat-food products thereof, unless they
shall have been inspected and passed by a duly authorized inspection of
the United States Department of Agriculture or the Illinois Department
of Agriculture.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-075 Condition of meat.

   No person shall bring or cause to be brought into or sold in any
public or private market within the city any meat or any dead animal,
the flesh of which is intended to be used for food, until such meat or
such dead animal shall have been fully and properly cooled and until all
blood shall have ceased dripping therefrom. Nor shall any person bring
or cause to be brought into any such public or private market in the
city any dead animal intended to be used for food unless the hide,
horns, feet, head and entrails shall have been removed therefrom, nor
bring or cause to be brought into such market any gut fat or any
unwholesome or offensive matter or thing; provided, that this section
shall not be construed as relating to poultry, game or fish.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-40-080 Immature calves, pigs and lambs – Sales restrictions.

   No person shall bring into or sell in the city for food any calf or
any part of the meat thereof which at the time it was killed was less
than four weeks old, or any pig or any part of the meat thereof which at
the time it was killed was less than five weeks old, or any lamb or any
part of the meat thereof which at the time it was killed was less than
eight weeks old.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-40-085 Markets and stables – Sanitary requirements.

   Every keeper of a meat market, or dealer in meats, and every person
owning, leasing or occupying any place, room or building where any
cattle are killed or dressed, and every person being the owner, lessee
or occupant of any room or stable where any cattle may be kept, shall
cause such place, room, building, stall or market, and its yards and
appurtenances, to be thoroughly cleansed and purified, and all offal,
blood, fat, garbage, refuse and unwholesome or offensive matter to be
removed therefrom at least once in every 24 hours after the use thereof
for any of the purposes herein referred to; and shall also at all times
keep all woodwork, except floors and counters, in any building, place or
premises aforesaid, thoroughly painted or whitewashed.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-40-090 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-090,
which pertained to sale of canned poultry.

ARTICLE III. WATER* (7-40-095 et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed former
Article III, which pertained to vegetables, fruits and berries, and
renumbered this former Article IV as Article III.

7-40-095 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-095,
which pertained to size and quality.

7-40-100 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-100,
which pertained to sulfite agents.

7-40-105 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-105,
which pertained to inspection.

7-40-110 Drinking Water.

   It shall be the duty of every person, officer, board or department
having any authority and control in regard to any water designed for
human consumption to take all usual, and also all reasonable, measures
and precautions, to secure and preserve the purity and wholesomeness of
such water.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-40-115 Drinking fountains.

   No person shall destroy or in any way injure or impair any drinking
fountain or part thereof in the city; nor shall any person interfere
with the use of or enjoyment of the water therein or therefrom, or
interrupt the flow thereof, nor shall any person put any dirt,
poisonous, medicinal or noxious substance into or near such water or
hydrant whereby such water is made, or may be regarded as, dangerous or
unwholesome as a drink.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

7-40-120 Use of impure water.

   No person shall use water taken from the Chicago River or any of its
branches, or from any body of water within the city which is stagnant,
or in which there is refuse, waste, garbage, sewage or any other
material tending to destroy the purity of the water, for domestic
purposes, for watering livestock, for preparing meats, poultry or
provisions which are intended for human consumption, or for any other
purpose whatever which endangers the public health; but nothing in this
section contained shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting the
right of persons to use water as a means of supplying motive power for
mechanical purposes.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652)

ARTICLE IV. POULTRY* (7-40-125 et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed former
Article V, which pertained to candy, repealed former Article VII, which
pertained to bottled water and nonalcoholic beverages, and renumbered
this former Article VI as Article IV.

7-40-125 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-125,
which pertained to sanitary requirements.

7-40-130 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-130,
which pertained to coloring, flavoring and other additives.

7-40-135 Poultry – License required – Sanitary requirements.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail any live
poultry or other live fowl, or to slaughter or cause to be slaughtered
for sale at retail any live poultry or other live fowl without first
having obtained a retail food establishment license, in accordance with
Chapter 4-8. No license shall be issued unless the premises on which the
poultry or fowl is slaughtered or to be slaughtered complies with all
pertinent rules of the Department of Health.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4)

7-40-140 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-6-12, p. 28670, § 1, repealed § 7-40-140,
which pertained to location restrictions.

7-40-150 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-150,
which pertained to recordkeeping.

7-40-155 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-155,
which pertained to fruits, vegetables, water and coloring ingredients.

7-40-160 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-160,
which pertained to sales restrictions on products of noncity
bottled-water plants.

7-40-165 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-165,
which pertained to labels.

7-40-175 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-175,
which pertained to protection from contamination.

7-40-180 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-180,
which pertained to tanks and equipment – installation, storage and
maintenance.

7-40-185 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-185,
which pertained to sanitary requirements for beverage contact surfaces.

7-40-190 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-190,
which pertained to mechanical bottle-washing apparatus.

7-40-195 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-195,
which pertained to storage of utensils, containers and single-service
articles.

7-40-200 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-200,
which pertained to syrup rooms.

7-40-205 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-205,
which pertained to filling and closing of beverage containers.

7-40-210 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-210,
which pertained to separate storage of finished products.

7-40-215 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-215,
which pertained to plumbing facilities.

7-40-220 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-220,
which pertained to garbage and waste disposal.

7-40-225 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-225,
which pertained to bottled-water plants – sanitary and health
requirements.

7-40-230 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-230,
which pertained to bottled-water plants – new construction or
reconstruction requirements.

7-40-235 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-235,
which pertained to construction and cleaning of floors.

7-40-240 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-240,
which pertained to compliance with city regulations.

7-40-245 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-245,
which pertained to premises – health and sanitation.

ARTICLE V. FROZEN DESSERTS AND MIXES* (7-40-250 et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, renumbered this
former Article IX as Article V.

7-40-250 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-250,
which pertained to definitions.

7-40-255 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 7-40-255,
which pertained to submittal of proof-prints.

7-40-275 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-275,
which pertained to condemnation procedures.

7-40-280 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-280,
which pertained to sampling procedure.

7-40-285 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-285,
which pertained to milk and milk products used as ingredients.

7-40-290 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-290,
which pertained to pasteurization required.

7-40-295 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-295,
which pertained to disease among employees – notices required.

7-40-300 Compliance with city rules.

   No mix or frozen dessert shall be sold for consumption within the
City of Chicago, unless it has been produced, processed, transported and
handled in compliance with the requirements of the rules of the
Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
4)

7-40-305 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-305,
which pertained to adulterated or misbranded desserts and mixes.

ARTICLE VI. MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS* (7-40-310 et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, renumbered this
former Article XI as Article VI.

7-40-310 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-310,
which pertained to definitions.

7-40-325 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-325,
which pertained to adulteration and misbranding designated.

7-40-330 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-330,
which pertained to labeling and bills of lading.

7-40-340 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-340,
which pertained to delivery, handling and receiving of milk.

7-40-345 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-345,
which pertained to bulk sales – notice required.

7-40-350 Pasteurization of milk and milk products.

   No milk or milk products shall be sold in the City of Chicago except
grade A pasteurized milk and milk products. Grade A pasteurized milk and
milk products shall conform with the rules of the Department of Health
for Grade A pasteurized milk and milk products.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
4)

7-40-355 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-355,
which pertained to storage and container requirements.

7-40-360 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-360,
which pertained to time limit on sales.

7-40-365 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-365,
which pertained to inspection and supervision of dairy farms, milk
plants and stations.

7-40-370 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-370,
which pertained to sampling and analysis.

7-40-375 Milk and milk products shipped from beyond inspection limits.

   Milk and milk products from points beyond the limits of inspection of
the City of Chicago may not be sold in the City of Chicago unless
produced and pasteurized under provisions identical with those of this
chapter and approved by the supervising inspectional agency.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
4)

7-40-380 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, repealed § 7-40-380,
which pertained to prevention of transmission of infections.

ARTICLE VII. VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS* (7-40-390 et seq.)

* Editor’s note – Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 4, renumbered this
former Article XII as Article VII.

7-40-390 Violation – Penalty.

   The penalty for violations of this chapter is set forth in Section
7-42-090.

(Amend Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25465; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
4)

CHAPTER 7-42
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS – INSPECTIONS, VIOLATIONS AND HEARING PROCEDURES*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, amended the Code by adding
provisions designated as a new Ch. 7-42. Subsequently, Coun. J. 3-10-99,
p. 91043, amended Ch. 7-42 in its entirety to read as herein set out.

7-42-010   Inspections.

7-42-015   Low-risk food establishments self-certification.

7-42-020   "Held for inspection" procedures.

7-42-030   Violations of provisions – Classification and notice.

7-42-035   License suspension.

7-42-040   Request for time extension.

7-42-050   Removal of suspended licenses and permits.

7-42-060   Application for restoration of suspended license.

7-42-065   Partial closures.

7-42-070   Reinspection fee.

7-42-080   License revocation.

7-42-085   Enforcement.

7-42-090   Violation – Penalty.

7-42-010 Inspections.

   For the purposes of Sections 7-42-010, 7-42-015 and 7-42-020, the
word "owner" shall include the owner, operator, licensee or person in
charge of any food establishment or vehicles used for the storage,
transportation or vending of foods, subject to the provisions of Chapter
4-8.

   (a)   The Department of Health shall have authority to inspect food
establishments at such intervals as set forth in rules of the Department
of Health to determine such food establishments’ compliance with the
requirements of this code and the rules of the Department of Health. For
purposes of such inspections, the Department of Health shall create
categories of food establishments based on the level of potential risk
that such food establishments may pose to the public health.

   (b)   Whenever the health authority inspects an establishment, the
inspector shall record the findings of the inspection on a summary
report form provided by the Department of Health for this purpose. Such
reports shall be signed by both the inspector and the establishment’s
representative, and one copy of the summary report shall be left with
the management of the establishment and shall be posted by the health
authority upon an inside wall of the establishment in an area visible to
all diners; if the food establishment is a grocery store or
delicatessen, the summary report shall be posted in an area visible to
all customers. It shall be unlawful for any person except an authorized
agent of the Department of Health to deface or remove any such posted
summary report, and a violation of this provision may result in
suspension of any and all licenses and permits issued to the owner of
that particular food establishment.

   (c)   It shall be the duty of every owner to permit a representative
of the Department of Health, after proper identification, to enter at
any reasonable time and make inspections of the facilities, equipment
and vehicles for determining compliance with the requirements of this
Municipal Code and the rules of the Department of Health relating to
health and sanitation and, when required to do so, the owner shall
furnish samples of any foods prepared, kept, sold or transported by any
such food establishment as often as the Commissioner of Health may deem
necessary to determine that the foods are free from alteration, not
misbranded, do not contain an excessive number of microorganisms or
their toxins, and otherwise comply with the provisions of this Municipal
Code and the rules of the Department of Health. The owner shall answer
all reasonable and proper questions and permit the health authority to
examine records of the establishment to obtain pertinent information
relating to food and supplies received or used and persons employed. Any
samples provided shall be examined or analyzed under the direction of
the Department of Health, and a record of each such examination or
analysis shall be made and kept in the offices of the department. Upon
failure or refusal by an owner to permit inspection or to furnish
required samples, the Commissioner shall immediately suspend any and all
licenses or permits issued to the owner of that particular food
establishment.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 1-18-12, p. 18976, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872,
§ 151; Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24251, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17,
p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-015 Low-risk food establishments self-certification.

   (a)   As a programmatic alternative to conducting its own inspections
as provided in Section 7-42-010 of this code, the commissioner of health
is authorized to require licensed low-risk food establishments to self-
certify compliance with this code and the rules and regulations of the
department of health.

   (b)   If the commissioner implements a self-certification program,
all low-risk food establishments shall submit one self-inspection report
every two years to the department of health to demonstrate compliance.
An establishment's failure to submit a complete and accurate report
required by this section within the timeframes established by the
commissioner shall subject the establishment's license to immediate
suspension as provided in Section 7-42-035.

   (c)   The department of health is authorized: (i) to develop forms
and protocols to administer this section, (ii) to define, consistent
with 77 Illinois Administrative Code Part 615, what constitutes a
"low-risk food establishment", and (iii) to adopt other rules and
regulations as may be necessary or useful for the proper administration
and enforcement of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24251, § 1)

7-42-020 "Held for inspection" procedures.

   (a)   Upon written notice to the owner, the Department of Health may
place a "Held for Inspection" order on any food which the health
authority determines or has probable cause to believe to be unwholesome
or otherwise adulterated or misbranded. At the request of the owner,
foods so held for inspection shall be permitted to be suitably stored
pending analysis reports or voluntarily denatured and disposed of under
Department of Health supervision.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the "Held for
Inspection" tag or seal placed on the food by the Department of Health,
nor shall the containers of such food be removed from the premises or
destroyed without permission of the Department of Health except on order
of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Department may vacate a "Held
for Inspection" order or may by written order direct the owner or person
in charge of the food to denature or destroy such food, bring it in
compliance with the provisions of this Code and the rules of the
Department of Health or dispose of it for nonhuman use as may be
approved by the Department of Health. Any order of the Department of
Health to denature or destroy food shall be stayed pending appeal if the
order is appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction within three (3)
calendar days. Nothing in this section shall preclude any court action
based upon a finding of unwholesome or adulterated foods.

   (c)   Upon written notice to the owner, a "Held for Inspection" order
may be placed by the Department of Health on any piece of equipment that
is believed to be inoperable or that the Department has not approved for
commercial use. "Held for Inspection" shall have the meaning ascribed to
this term in the rules of the Department of Health.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-030 Violations of provisions – Classification and notice.

   (a)   Classification of violations. The Commissioner of Health shall
promulgate rules classifying violations of this chapter, Chapter 7-38 or
Chapter 7-40, or the rules of the Department of Health, or rules
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health that are
incorporated by reference into this Code, or any other provision of this
Municipal Code relating to health and sanitation in any food
establishment, or Sections 2, 4, or 7 of the most current version of the
FDA’s Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, as priority item, priority foundation
item, or core item.

   (b)   Notice of violations. When the Department of Health finds a
violation of this chapter, Chapter 7-38 or Chapter 7-40, or the rules of
the Department of Health, or rules promulgated by the Illinois
Department of Public Health that are incorporated by reference into this
Code, or any other provision of this Municipal Code relating to health
and sanitation in any food establishment, or Sections 2, 4, or 7 of the
most current version of the FDA’s Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, the
Department shall deliver to the licensee written notice of the violation
with a copy of the inspection report which shall set a date by which the
violation shall be corrected and designate each violation as priority
item, priority foundation item, or core item as classified by the
Commissioner of Health.

   (c)   Correction of violations. Core item violations that are not
corrected by the next routine inspection of the Department of Health
shall be classified as a priority foundation item violation. Priority
foundation item violations that are not corrected in the time frame
specified by the Department of Health shall be classified as priority
item violations.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-035 License suspension.

   Whenever an inspection indicates that the conditions in the food
establishment create an imminent hazard to the public health, the
license of the food establishment shall be immediately suspended,
including whenever an inspection indicates the existence of a priority
item violation that cannot be corrected prior to the conclusion of the
inspection. The Department may grant additional time to correct a
priority violation in lieu of immediately suspending a license if the
Department deems that the violation does not pose an imminent health
hazard.

(Added Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24251, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-040 Request for time extension.

   (a)   After the owner receives a notice of a violation from the
Department of Health, as evidenced by the inspection report, but before
the allotted time has elapsed for compliance, the owner may request an
extension in writing. The Commissioner of Health may promulgate rules to
administer this subsection.

   (b)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Commissioner from
immediately suspending a license or permit pursuant to Section 7-42-035
or seeking an enforcement action pursuant to Section 7-42-085.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24982, §
21; Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56813; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, §
152; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-050 Removal of suspended licenses and permits.

   Upon suspension of any license and permits of a food establishment,
all operations related to any such suspended license or permits shall
cease at once, and such license and permits shall be removed from the
establishment and delivered to the Department of Health. The Department
of Health may conspicuously place a "license suspended" sign upon that
part of the food establishment related to any such suspended license or
permits and to which the public has access. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, cover, or deface a "license suspended" sign placed on
a food establishment unless authorized to do so by the Department of
Health. The health authorities shall promptly notify the Chicago Police
Department of the suspension, and the Police Department shall enforce
the cessation of all affected operations.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-060 Application for restoration of suspended license.

   A license holder whose license has been suspended may at any time
apply for restoration of the license. Within two (2) business days after
the Department of Health receives such application, accompanied by a
statement signed by the licensee that the provisions previously violated
have been complied with, the Department of Health shall reinspect the
establishment to assure that the applicant is complying with the
requirements of this Code. When the reinspection indicates full
compliance, the license shall be restored and the Chicago Police
Department so notified.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-065 Partial closures.

   In any instance in which a license is suspended under this chapter,
the Commissioner of Health may order closed that portion of the food
establishment which created a public health hazard, and allow the
remaining portion of the establishment to remain open for business, if
the Commissioner determines that a partial closure would not jeopardize
public health or safety.

(Added Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, §
5)

7-42-070 Reinspection fee.

   A $100.00 reinspection fee shall be assessed against the licensee of
any establishment for each inspection conducted by the department of
health to address a violation previously identified by the department.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61858, Art. VI, § 2)

7-42-080 License revocation.

   Upon a record of repeated violations of this Code or the rules of the
Department of Health related to health and sanitation, or repeated
suspensions of a food establishment license, the Commissioner may
recommend the revocation of the license and any other license relating
to the conduct of business at the food establishment to the Department
of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 4-4 of this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 7-27-05, p. 53211, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-085 Enforcement.

   (a)   If any person violates, or resists the enforcement of, this
chapter, Chapter 7-38 or Chapter 7-40, or the rules of the Department of
Health, or rules promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health
that are incorporated by reference into this Code, or any other
provision of the Municipal Code relating to health and sanitation in any
food establishment, or Sections 2, 4, or 7 of the most current version
of the FDA’s Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, the Commissioner of Health or
the Commissioner’s designee may issue a notice of violation to initiate
an action with the Department of Administrative Hearings seeking to
impose a fine. The Commissioner may also recommend to the Department of
Business Affairs and Consumer Protection the revocation of the owner’s
licenses and permits.

   (b)   The pertinent jurisdiction referenced in the FDA’s Pasteurized
Milk Ordinance is the City of Chicago, and the pertinent "regulatory
agency" referenced in that Ordinance is the Department of Health.

   (c)   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude bringing court action
based on any violations of this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043; Amend Coun. J. 7-27-05, p. 53211, §
1; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 47220, Art. V, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

7-42-090 Violation – Penalty.

   Except as otherwise provided in this Code, any person who violates,
or who resists the enforcement of, this chapter, Chapter 7-38 or Chapter
7-40, or the rules of the Department of Health, or rules promulgated by
the Illinois Department of Public Health that are incorporated by
reference into this Code, or any other provision of the Municipal Code
relating to health and sanitation in any food establishment, or Sections
2, 4, or 7 of the most current version of the FDA’s Pasteurized Milk
Ordinance, shall be fined $500.00 for each priority violation; and
$250.00 for each priority foundation violation. A separate and distinct
offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each and every day on
which any person shall be guilty of such violation; provided that, the
intervening days between when a license holder whose license has been
suspended applies for restoration of the license and a reinspection has
been conducted by the Department of Health shall not constitute separate
offenses if the violation was found to be corrected upon reinspection.

(Added Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, Amend Coun. J. 3-10-99, p. 91043;
Amend Coun. J. 12-13-17, p. 63286, § 5)

CHAPTER 7-44
EXTERMINATION BY FUMIGATION*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23652, renumbered former Ch. 7-40
as Ch. 7-44.

7-44-010   Definitions.

7-44-020   Hazardous materials license – Required.

7-44-030   Sale of materials for hydrocyanic acid gas – Restricted.

7-44-040   Permit – Required.

7-44-050   Notice – Required.

7-44-060   Notification of occupants – Vacating of premises.

7-44-070   Crew removal from vessels.

7-44-080   Sealing of rooms.

7-44-090   Locking rooms and apartments.

7-44-100   Warning card.

7-44-110   Safety measures – Exceptions.

7-44-120   Guards.

7-44-130   Food products – Special safety measures.

7-44-140   Fires – Safety measures.

7-44-150   Impermeable receptacles – Required.

7-44-160   Exposure of cyanic crystals prohibited.

7-44-170   Airing of premises.

7-44-180   Fumigation residue – Disposal.

7-44-190   Hydrocyanic acid containers – Department of health approval –
Exceptions.

7-44-200   Stink or tear gases.

7-44-210   Violation – Penalty.

7-44-010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter:

   "Extermination by fumigation" means the use of hydrocyanic acid gas,
cyanogen, chloropicrin, methyl bromide, or any other poisonous, noxious,
or dangerous gases or fumes specified by the Commissioner of Public
Health as liable to affect human beings by causing severe sickness or
death, for the extermination by fumigation of household insects, vermin,
rats or other household pests in any place in the City of Chicago;
provided, however, that it shall not apply to the fumigation of
greenhouses, grain elevators or cereal or tobacco warehouses.

   "Exterminator" means any person who engages in the business of
extermination by fumigation.

   "Fire Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the Fire Department of
the City of Chicago or the Commissioner's departmental designee.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24131, § 24; Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p.
27657, Art. IV, § 9)

7-44-020 Hazardous materials license – Required.

   No person may engage in the business of extermination by fumigation
without a hazardous materials license issued under Section 4-6-210.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 163)

7-44-030 Sale of materials for hydrocyanic acid gas – Restricted.

   No person shall sell or give away material for the purpose of
fumigating premises with hydrocyanic acid gas, except to a person with a
hazardous materials license issued under Section 4-6-210, unless a
signed statement in writing is first obtained from the buyer or
recipient of the material to the effect that it will not be used for the
purpose of fumigating any place of domestic habitation or any building
or portion thereof as set forth in this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 5-9-12, p. 27485, § 164)

7-44-040 Permit – Required.

   It shall be the duty of every exterminator, intending to generate or
release hydrocyanic acid gas or other dangerous gases or fumes for
fumigation purposes, before starting such generation or release, to file
written notice with the Commissioner of Buildings, giving the location
of the building or enclosed space to be fumigated, and to secure from
the Commissioner of Buildings a permit, which shall state the day and
hour when the work will be performed. Each application for such permit
shall be accompanied by a fee of $2.00. Such permit shall be kept on the
premises to be fumigated. The time of the permit may be extended if the
applicant is unable to perform the work on the hour and day set forth in
the permit, and so notifies the Commissioner of Buildings 16 hours prior
to the time set forth in the permit.

   Provided that every fumigation of plants, factories, warehouses, box
cars, vehicles, specially constructed vaults, or any other place where
candy or other foodstuffs are manufactured, sold, stored, transported,
or handled shall be done in strict compliance with the rules of the
Department of Public Health, and further provided, that a permit for
each such fumigation shall be obtained by the fumigator from the
Commissioner of Public Health.

   Provided, however, that a ship or vessel may be fumigated without
previously securing from the Commissioner of Buildings a permit so to
do, if every person, except the watchman, shall leave the vessel for the
period of fumigation and the vessel shall be fended off from shore so
that no person may board the vessel without the knowledge of the
watchman; and provided, further, that where furniture is removed from
places of domestic habitation and fumigated in specially constructed
vaults, and where furs or clothing is fumigated in specially constructed
vaults, a permit for each such fumigation shall not be required, but in
lieu thereof, an annual permit shall be secured from the Commissioner of
Buildings after he has investigated and satisfied himself that the
proper safeguards for health and life are provided.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 10)

7-44-050 Notice – Required.

   No person shall prevent or arrest the development of fungoid growths,
disinfect premises or exterminate vermin by means of lethal, toxic,
corrosive, flammable or explosive fumes or gases without first notifying
the fire commissioner. Such notice shall be delivered to the fire
commissioner not less than 24 hours before any such fumigation process
is begun. Such notice shall include the description and address of the
premises to be fumigated, the names and addresses of the occupant and
owner of said premises and the name and address of the person in charge
of such fumigation operations. Such notice shall also state the name and
character of the fumigating agent to be employed and the exact time and
duration of such process.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24131, § 25)

7-44-060 Notification of occupants – Vacating of premises.

   When hydrocyanic gas or other dangerous gases or fumes are used for
exterminating purposes, before fumigation, the operator shall personally
inspect the premises and shall serve notice, over his signature, upon
all responsible occupants of each room or apartment within the danger
area, stating the danger of the process and the precautions to be
observed, designating the rooms or apartments which must be vacated and
indicating the time when the gas is to be generated or liberated. The
form of this notice shall be approved by the department of health. Every
room in the danger area shall be vacated. In the case of a building in
which there is an inner court, vent shaft or light well or a lot line
court with a party wall or in the case of two buildings having adjacent
lot line courts, upon which any room being gassed opens, every room with
windows or other apertures opening to such inner or lot line courts,
vent shafts or light wells shall be vacated and securely locked. Where
the walls of any adjoining buildings are located within ten feet of the
rooms or apartments being gassed, the operator shall notify, over his
signature, all responsible occupants of rooms or apartments with window
openings in such walls that such windows as are directly opposite or
above the area of the adjoining building which is under gas, must remain
closed or the rooms vacated during the time the building gassed is being
flushed or aired. All rooms or apartments ordered vacated, but not under
gas, shall be well ventilated during the process by keeping the windows
of the rooms or apartments open.

   Provided, however, that such vacation of premises and notification of
occupants shall not be necessary where the fumigation is done in special
rooms or vaults in furniture stores, secondhand stores or household
goods warehouses or vaults in candy and other food processing plants,
when such special rooms or vaults are approved as to their location,
construction and gastightness by the department of health, and a
provision is made for the airing of such vaults so as to allow the
escape of gases at such a location where it is not dangerous by a system
of ducts and ventilation approved by the department of health.

   The danger area is that portion of any structure or dwelling which
lies within the boundary of the outside walls of the building under gas,
the roof and the basement or cellar floor, and such cut-off or fire
walls as may exist in the structure in question. Such cut-off or fire
walls shall be of solid masonry, gastight, at least eight inches in
thickness extending from the basement through the attic, with all
openings locked and guarded against entry and effectively sealed against
gas leakage.

   This vacating is essential and shall be adhered to in all cases
except where it is necessary to keep boilers in operation to maintain
temperatures in certain rooms in plants (particularly food-processing
plants). These boiler rooms may be allowed to remain in operation during
the fumigation period provided they are sealed gastight from the
remainder of the building, and that all doors or other openings leading
from the boiler rooms to the part of the plant under gas are locked and
barricaded, and further provided no one be permitted to enter the boiler
rooms except in company with one of the fumigators who is to remain with
him while he is in these rooms. Furthermore, such persons and the
fumigators shall wear suitable gas masks while in the boiler rooms.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-070 Crew removal from vessels.

   No vessel shall be fumigated until the captain or other commanding
officer shall have mustered the crew and caused the members thereof and
all other persons therein or thereon to leave and remain away from such
vessel during the process of fumigation. Provided, however, that where a
part of a vessel is to be fumigated and such part is not occupied or
immediately adjoining an occupied portion of the vessel, and where after
an investigation conducted by the commissioner of buildings, it appears
that such portion may be fumigated without danger to life or health, he
may, in his discretion, grant permission to the holder of a permit to
perform fumigation without requiring all persons in other parts of such
vessel to leave the same, subject to such conditions and restrictions as
he may impose.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-080 Sealing of rooms.

   Before fumigating with hydrocyanic acid gas or other dangerous gases
or fumes, the operator shall securely seal all cracks, holes, crevices,
openings and apertures in walls, ceilings and floors in such a way as to
confine the gas to the premises intended to be fumigated.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-090 Locking rooms and apartments.

   Before fumigation, the operator shall personally inspect all rooms
and apartments ordered vacated under Section 7-44-060, and be assured
that they are unoccupied by persons or domestic animals, after which all
doors to all rooms or apartments, excepting one exit door to the rooms
or apartments to be gassed, shall be securely locked; in addition, such
windows or other wall openings as might possibly be used to gain
entrance shall be locked or barred in such a way as to prevent entrance
while still permitting thorough airing of the room. Immediately upon
generating or liberating the gas, the door through which the operator
leaves shall be securely locked and sealed, and all keys obtainable to
all rooms or apartments ordered vacated shall be retained by the
operator until all danger is passed. As an additional precaution, all
rooms and apartments vacated shall be placarded.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-100 Warning card.

   Prior to releasing the hydrocyanic gas or other dangerous gases,
suitable warning signs shall be posted on all entrances or doors to the
premises to be fumigated, and upon all gangplanks, ladders and other
approaches, etc., from the deck, pier or land to the vessel as follows:

 

Skull and Crossbones

Danger

Skull and Crossbones

Fumigation with
Cyanide Gas
Deadly Poison

All persons are warned to keep away.

By Order of the Department of Health.

(Name and address of exterminator as well as telephone number)

 

   Such sign shall be printed in red ink on white Cardboard. The letters
in the word "Danger" shall be at least two inches high, all others
except the signature at least three-fourths of an inch high. At night
and places where the natural light between sunrise and sunset is dim,
such signs shall be illuminated so as to make the reading matter thereon
plainly legible.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-110 Safety measures – Exceptions.

   (a)   Safety Measures. Before the beginning of any fumigation process
referred to in Section 7-44-050, all automatic electrical devices shall
be removed from service and all fires and open flames shall be
extinguished. The premises shall be adequately sealed to prevent escape
of the fumigating agent into occupied quarters. Warning placards shall
be affixed in a conspicuous manner at each means of ingress to every
space undergoing any fumigation. Such placards shall display the words
"Dangerous Gases – Keep Out" in letters not less than three inches in
height. At the end of every such process of fumigation, it shall be the
duty of the person conducting such process to ventilate thoroughly such
premises and to notify the fire commissioner that such premises have
been ventilated and are safe to enter.

   (b)   Exceptions. Where such processes enumerated in subsection (a)
are carried on daily in a gastight room or vault as a part of any
production or renovating process, the provisions of this section shall
be held to apply only to the space in which such fumigating is done and
a monthly return of the notices herein required shall suffice so long as
such processes shall be continuous or of daily occurrence.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24131, § 26)

7-44-120 Guards.

   Whenever hydrocyanic acid or other dangerous gases or fumes are
generated or liberated in any room or portion of a structure in the
city, a sufficient number of capable, alert watchmen shall remain on
duty at the entrance or entrances to the room, building or enclosed
space vacated for gassing, to prevent people from entering while gas is
present and for two hours after the room or area gassed is opened for
airing. All guards or watchmen shall be reliable persons and must be
acceptable as a proper guard by the commissioner of buildings. The
exterminator shall be held strictly responsible and accountable for the
conduct of the guards or watchmen. In every case where the entire
building is not vacated, the exterminator or his approved representative
shall remain on the job during the progress of fumigation and airing,
and shall constantly supervise the occupancy of the structure to insure
that no person will be endangered by gas leakage. The exterminator shall
give all guards definite and proper instructions, and shall visit the
premises being fumigated at regular and frequent intervals during the
process to insure that they are properly guarded.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-130 Food products – Special safety measures.

   Before fumigation, the exterminator shall see that all ice, food, and
drink are removed from the rooms ordered vacated; except that such food
or drink as is in sealed airtight containers need not be removed.
Provided, that in industrial fumigations such as flour mills, cereal
mills, food warehouses, macaroni plants, candy manufacturing plants,
cheese-processing plants, etc., where fumigation is for the purpose of
destroying vermin or insect pests infesting these foodstuffs, only
liquid fats, oils, and moist foodstuffs not sealed in airtight
containers need be removed. The exterminator shall state in the
application for permit to fumigate foodstuffs the amount of moisture
content of the various foods it wishes to fumigate. No fumigated food
shall be sold or shipped until it has been aerated by every reasonable
means, including the use of fans wherever indicated, for a period not
less than 36 hours following fumigation and suitable tests approved by
the Commissioner of Public Health of the air immediately around it are
negative for the fumigant used.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 11)

7-44-140 Fires – Safety measures.

   All fires within the premises under gas shall be put out whenever a
flammable gas is used. For the purpose of this chapter, the Commissioner
of Public Health shall designate upon request whether the gas to be used
shall be regarded as flammable or nonflammable. The exterminator shall
notify the Fire Department of any rooms, building or structure other
than approved vaults which are placed under hydrocyanic acid or other
dangerous gas fumigation.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652;
Amend Coun. J. 2-24-21, p. 27657, Art. IV, § 12)

7-44-150 Impermeable receptacles – Required.

   An impermeable receptacle for containing the ingredients is required
in fumigating with hydrocyanic or other dangerous gases.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-160 Exposure of cyanic crystals prohibited.

   No cyanic crystals shall be dropped on the floor or left exposed
where people or domestic animals may come in contact with them in
fumigating with hydrocyanic or other dangerous gases.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-170 Airing of premises.

   At the conclusion of the gassing process in fumigation, it shall be
the duty of the operator to throw open doors and windows of the
premises, until all rooms have been opened for free access of air. No
person other than the operator shall be permitted to enter the premises
until all traces of the gas have disappeared, and in no case shall the
occupants of the rooms or areas gassed be permitted to enter until 12
hours after airing. The operator or watchmen shall keep all persons away
from the doors and windows of the premises for two hours after airing.
Infants and children under six years of age shall not be permitted to
re-enter the premises until 18 hours after the rooms or apartments are
opened for airing. The exterminator shall inform all occupants having
children of this provision in writing over his signature. No room or
space, except where the whole building is vacated and except upon a ship
or vessel when fended off from shore as provided herein, shall be left
under gas after the time of sunset. Warnings posted where the natural
light between sunrise and sunset is dim shall be artificially
illuminated. Warnings on vessels fumigated after sunset shall be
artificially illuminated in a manner approved by the department of
health.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-180 Fumigation residue – Disposal.

   The operator shall dispose of the residue left in the jars or
containers, and the water used for cleaning such jars or containers, in
accordance with the provisions of the federal and state statutes and
regulations concerning environmental and toxic waste and hazards.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-190 Hydrocyanic acid containers – Department of health approval –
Exceptions.

   Every container in which hydrocyanic acid, either alone, mixed with
or absorbed in other material, is handled, shipped or sold, shall be of
a type of construction, material and thickness approved by the
department of health, in order that accidental poisonings during
handling, storage and shipment of such containers may be prevented. This
approval shall not be necessary where the containers are accepted by the
United States officials for interstate shipment.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-200 Stink or tear gases.

   The department of health may prescribe that a stink gas or tear gas
shall be mixed with the hydrocyanic acid gas or other dangerous gases or
fumes to be used for fumigating, specifying in whatever detail it shall
deem necessary the time and method for the generation or release of such
stink or tear gases.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

7-44-210 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense. Every day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15616; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-99, p. 23652)

CHAPTER 7-50
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION

7-50-010   Definitions.

7-50-020   Fees – Use of revenue – Applicability.

7-50-030   Fee – Collection and remittance.

7-50-040   Records and books – Inspection.

7-50-050   Transmission of fees.

7-50-060   Wireless carriers – To retain three percent.

7-50-070   Administration and enforcement.

7-50-080   Uniform revenue procedures to apply.

7-50-085   Application of The Illinois Mobile Telecommunications
Conformity Act.

7-50-090   Contracts with wireless carriers.

7-50-010 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this chapter, when any of the following words or
terms are used herein they shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this section:

   "Board" means the Chicago Emergency Telephone System Board created by
chapter 3-64 of this Code.

   "Comptroller" means the comptroller of the City of Chicago.

   "Department" means the department of finance of the City of Chicago.

   "Director" or "director of revenue" means the director of revenue of
the City of Chicago.

   "Emergency telephone system" means the telecommunications system
established by the City of Chicago pursuant to chapter 3-64 of this Code
to respond to emergency telecommunications.

   "Prepaid wireless telecommunications service" means a wireless
telecommunications service that allows a caller to dial 9-1-1 to access
the 9-1-1 system, which service must be paid for in advance and is sold
in predetermined units or dollars of which the amount declines with use
in a known amount.

   "Service address" means the customer's place of primary use as
defined in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, Public
Law 106-252, as amended from time to time, which as of August 1, 2002
provides that the "place of primary use" means the street address
representative of where the customer's use of the mobile
telecommunications service primarily occurs, and which further provides
that this means the residential street address or the primary business
street address of the customer within the licensed service area of the
home service provider.

   "Wireless carrier" means a provider of two-way cellular, broadband
PCS, geographic area 800 MHZ and 900 MHZ Commercial Radio Service
(CMRS), Wireless Communications Service (WCS), or other Commercial
Mobile Radio Service (CMRS), as defined by the Federal Communications
Commission, offering radio communications that may provide fixed,
mobile, radio location, or satellite communication services to
individuals or businesses within its assigned spectrum block and
geographical area or that offers real-time, two-way voice service that
is interconnected with the public switched network, including a reseller
of such service.

   "Wireless communications service" means a two- way voice radio-linked
communications service which provides dial interconnection to a public
switched network, including but not limited to cellular telephone
service and personal communications service.

   Any other word or term not defined herein but defined in the
Emergency Telephone System Act of the State of Illinois, codified at 50
ILCS 750/0.01, et seq., shall have the meaning ascribed to the word or
term in that act.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 6-19-02, p. 87159, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
10-5-11, p. 7956, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 5;
Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 153; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p.
61858, Art. III, § 2)

7-50-020 Fees – Use of revenue – Applicability.

   A.   A fee is imposed upon all billed subscribers of wireless
communications service within the corporate limits of the city in order
to pay for a portion of the cost incurred by the city to operate the
emergency telephone system. This fee shall apply to in-service wireless
telephone numbers where the service address of the wireless
communications service is located in the city. The fee shall not apply
to consumers of prepaid wireless telecommunications service, who instead
shall pay the surcharge imposed pursuant to Chapter 7-51 of this Code.

      (1)   Until December 31, 2017, the fee shall be imposed at the
monthly rate of $3.90.

      (2)   Beginning January 1, 2018 and through December 31, 2020, the
fee shall be imposed at the monthly rate of $5.00.

      (3)   Beginning January 1, 2021, the fee imposed shall be at the
monthly rate of $5.00, unless the maximum rate authorized by the General
Assembly is lower, in which case the rate shall be the maximum rate
authorized by the General Assembly.

   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the fee
is upon the billed subscriber, and nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to impose a charge of any kind on the occupation of selling or
providing telecommunications. The fee shall be in addition to any other
fee or any taxes imposed by the city.

   C.   The fee imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any wireless
telephone number to the extent prohibited by the constitution or
statutes of the United States or of the State of Illinois.

   D.   In the event that a subscriber receives wireless communications
service for a period of less than a month, the fee shall be prorated for
that month.

   E.   The fee shall not apply to any wireless telephone number
assigned to a governmental body.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 6-19-02, p. 87159, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
11-13-07, p. 15814, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-9-09, p. 69279, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-14, p. 84576, § 2;
Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61858, Art. III, § 2)

7-50-030 Fee – Collection and remittance.

   A.   Each wireless carrier shall collect the fee imposed by this
chapter from its billed subscribers each month, and remit the fee to the
department not later than the last day of the month following the month
the fee is collected. The fees shall be accompanied by a remittance
return which shall be in a form prescribed by the comptroller.

   B.   Wireless carriers shall state the fee as a separate item on each
subscriber's bill.

   C.   If a wireless carrier fails to collect the fee imposed by this
chapter from a subscriber, then the subscriber shall file a return and
pay the fee directly to the department on or before the date required by
subsection 7-50-030 A.

   D.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, for all
periods beginning on or after January 1, 2000, (1) all returns shall be
filed with the department on an annual basis on or before August 15 of
each year in accordance with Sections 3-4-186 and 3-4-189 of this Code,
(2) all remittances shall be made in accordance with either Section
3-4-187 (payment of actual tax liabilities) or Section 3-4-188 (payment
of estimated taxes), and (3) the provisions of Sections 3-4-186,
3-4-187, 3-4-188 and 3-4-189 shall control over any contrary provisions
in this chapter regarding the subjects covered by those sections.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-17-99, p. 18040, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 5)

7-50-040 Records and books – Inspection.

   Every wireless carrier and every billed subscriber shall keep
accurate and complete books and records of each transaction or activity
which requires the person to collect and remit or to pay the fee imposed
by this chapter, including all original source documents. All such books
and records shall, at all reasonable times during business hours of the
day, be open to inspection by the department.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2)

7-50-050 Transmission of fees.

   The department shall promptly transmit all fees it receives pursuant
to Section 7-50-030 of this chapter to the board for deposit into the
emergency telephone system fund as established by chapter 3-64 of this
Code. All fees collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be used only for
the purposes set forth in Section 3-64-160.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2)

7-50-060 Wireless carriers – To retain three percent.

   To promote uniformity between wireless carriers and those
telecommunications carriers that are subject to the collection
responsibilities contained in Section 3-64-050 of this Code, wireless
carriers may retain three percent of the fees they collect pursuant to
this chapter 7-50 to reimburse themselves for expenses incurred in
accounting, collecting and remitting the fee. This commission shall not
be allowed for fees not timely remitted to the department.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2)

7-50-070 Administration and enforcement.

   The comptroller is hereby empowered to adopt, promulgate and enforce
rules and regulations pertaining to the administration and enforcement
of this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 5)

7-50-080 Uniform revenue procedures to apply.

   The provisions of the uniform revenue procedures ordinance, Chapter
3-4 of this Code, including the confidentiality provisions contained in
Section 3-4-080, shall apply to and supplement this chapter to the
extent they are not clearly inconsistent herewith, and the fee imposed
by this chapter shall be treated as if it were a revenue measure for
purposes of the application of that ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2)

7-50-085 Application of The Illinois Mobile Telecommunications
Conformity Act.

   The provisions of Sections 1 through 85 of the Illinois Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, Public Act Number 92-0474,
as amended from time to time, shall apply to and supplement this
chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 6-19-02, p. 87159, § 3)

7-50-090 Contracts with wireless carriers.

   The director is authorized to enter into a contract with any wireless
carrier for collection of the fee imposed by this chapter. In the event
that a contract is entered into with a wireless carrier, the
requirements contained in subsection 7-50-030(A) of this chapter shall
not apply to that wireless carrier.

(Added Coun. J. 11-7-96, p. 32073, § 1.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-13-96, p.
34040, § 1.2)

CHAPTER 7-51
CHICAGO PREPAID WIRELESS 9-1-1 SURCHARGE

7-51-010   Title.

7-51-020   Definitions.

7-51-030   Surcharge Imposed – Applicability.

7-51-040   Administration and enforcement.

7-51-050   Retailers to retain percentage.

7-51-060   Use of proceeds.

7-51-070   Severability.

7-51-010 Title.

   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Chicago Prepaid
Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge Ordinance". The surcharge imposed by this
chapter shall be known as the "Chicago Prepaid Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge"
and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by the City of
Chicago, the State of Illinois or any other municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2)

7-51-020 Definitions.

   When any of the following words or terms are used in this chapter,
whether or not capitalized, they shall have the meaning or construction
ascribed to them in this section:

   "Board" means the Chicago Emergency Telephone System Board created by
Chapter 3-64 of this Code.

   "City" means the City of Chicago.

   "Comptroller'" means the comptroller of the city.

   "Consumer" means a person who purchases prepaid wireless
telecommunications service in a retail transaction.

   "Department" means the department of finance of the city.

   "Prepaid wireless E9-1-1 surcharge" means the charge that is required
to be collected by a seller from a consumer in the amount established
under Section 7-51-030 of this chapter.

   "Prepaid wireless telecommunications service" means a wireless
telecommunications service that allows a caller to dial 9-1-1 to access
the 9-1-1 system, which service must be paid for in advance and is sold
in predetermined units or dollars of which the amount declines with use
in a known amount.

   "Provider" means a person that provides prepaid wireless
telecommunications service pursuant to a license issued by the Federal
Communications Commission.

   "Retail transaction" means the purchase of prepaid wireless
telecommunications service from a seller for any purpose other than
resale.

   "Seller" means a person who sells prepaid wireless telecommunications
service to another person.

   "Wireless telecommunications service" means commercial mobile radio
service as defined by 47 C.F.R. 20.3.

   All other terms shall have the meaning provided in the Prepaid
Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge Act, Public Act 97-0463, as amended.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872,
§ 154)

7-51-030 Surcharge Imposed – Applicability.

   A.   Pursuant to the Prepaid Wireless 9-1-1 Surcharge Act, Public Act
97-0463, as amended, there is hereby imposed on consumers a prepaid
wireless 9-1-1 surcharge of 9.0 percent per retail transaction. On and
after July 1, 2017, the rate shall be 7.0 percent per retail
transaction, unless the General Assembly has authorized a rate of 9.0
percent per retail transaction, in which case the rate shall be 9.0
percent per retail transaction.

   B.   The prepaid wireless 9-1-1 surcharge imposed by this chapter
shall be collected by the seller from the consumer with respect to each
retail transaction occurring in the City.

   C.   The surcharge shall not be imposed or collected from entities
that are tax exempt under the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act.

   D.   The amount of the prepaid wireless 9-1-1 surcharge that is
collected by a seller from a consumer, if such amount is separately
stated on an invoice, receipt, or other similar document provided to the
consumer by the seller, shall not be included in the base for measuring
any tax, fee, surcharge, or other charge that is imposed by the State of
Illinois, any political subdivision of the State, or any
intergovernmental agency.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-14, p. 84576,
§ 3; Amend Coun. J. 6-28-17, p. 50445, § 1)

7-51-040 Administration and enforcement.

   The Illinois Department of Revenue shall administer the collection of
the 9-1-1 surcharge imposed by this chapter and may adopt and enforce
reasonable rules relating to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance as may be deemed expedient. The Illinois
Department of Revenue may deduct an amount, not to exceed 3 percent
during the first year following the effective date of this ordinance and
not to exceed 2 percent during every year thereafter of remitted
charges, to be retained by the Illinois Department of Revenue to
reimburse its direct costs of administering the collection and
remittance of the prepaid wireless 9-1-1 surcharge. The comptroller is
authorized to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the
Illinois Department of Revenue for the collection and enforcement of the
tax imposed by this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872,
§ 155)

7-51-050 Retailers to retain percentage.

   For the first 12 months after the effective date of this ordinance, a
seller shall be permitted to deduct and retain 5 percent of prepaid
wireless 9-1-1 surcharges that are collected by the seller from
consumers and that are remitted and timely filed with the Illinois
Department of Revenue. After the first 12 months, a seller shall be
permitted to deduct and retain 3 percent of prepaid wireless 9-1-1
surcharges that are collected by the seller from consumers and that are
remitted and timely filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2)

7-51-060 Use of proceeds.

   All proceeds of the surcharge imposed pursuant to this chapter, after
the deductions allowed by Sections 7-51-030 and 7-51-040, shall be
promptly transmitted to the Board for deposit into the emergency
telephone system fund as established by Chapter 3-64 of this Code and
shall be used only for the purposes set forth in Section 3-64-160.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2)

7-51-070 Severability.

   If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision
of this chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such
occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their
application, that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or
invalid provision or its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid
provision, or application of such provision, is severable, unless
otherwise provided by this chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 7956, § 2)

CHAPTER 7-52
HOTEL AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR ORDINANCE

7-52-010   Title and purpose.

7-52-020   Definitions.

7-52-030   Hotel portable automated external defibrillator.

7-52-040   Maintenance and oversight.

7-52-050   Exemption from civil liability.

7-52-010 Title and purpose.

   This section shall be known and may by cited as the "Hotel AED
Ordinance", and shall be liberally construed and applied to promote its
purpose and policies. It is the purpose of this section and the policy
of the City to encourage the training in life saving first aid,
including the use of automated external defibrillators, to save the
lives of the residents and visitors of the City of Chicago.

(Added Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 55898, § 2)

7-52-020 Definitions.

   As used in this Act:

   "Automated external defibrillator" means a medical device heart
monitor and defibrillator that:

      (1)   Has received approval of its premarket notification, filed
pursuant to 21 U.S.C. Section 360(k), from the United States Food and
Drug Administration;

      (2)   Is capable of recognizing the presence or absence of
ventricular fibrillation and rapid ventricular tachycardia, and is
capable of determining, without intervention by an operator, whether
defibrillation should be performed;

      (3)   Upon determining that defibrillation should be performed,
either automatically charges and delivers an electrical impulse to an
individual, or charges and delivers an electrical impulse at the command
of the operator; and

      (4)   In the case of a defibrillator that may be operated in
either an automatic or a manual mode, is set to operate in the automatic
mode.

   "Defibrillation" means administering an electrical impulse to an
individual in order to stop ventricular fibrillation or rapid
ventricular tachycardia.

   "Department" means the Chicago Department of Public Health.

   "Person" means an individual, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company, or organized group of persons (whether
incorporated or not).

   "Trained AED user" means a person who has successfully completed a
course of instruction in accordance with the standards of a nationally
recognized organization such as the American Red Cross or the American
Heart Association or a course of instruction in accordance with the
rules adopted under this Act to use an automated external defibrillator,
or who is licensed to practice medicine in all its branches in this
state.

(Added Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 55898, § 2)

7-52-030 Hotel portable automated external defibrillator.

   (a)   Any Hotel as defined under Section 4-6-180 of the Municipal
Code of Chicago shall have portable automated external defibrillators
available on-site to assist hotel employees and those visiting the Hotel
as follows: (i) Each Hotel having not more than 250 guest rooms shall
have at least one automated external defibrillator which shall be
readily accessible by hotel employees in the Hotel's front office; (ii)
each Hotel having more than 250 guest rooms shall have at least two
automated external defibrillators which shall be readily accessible to
hotel employees in the Hotel's front office; and (iii) any Hotel with
banquet meeting space of 4,000 square feet on any floor shall have at
least one automated external defibrillator on each such floor which
shall be centrally located, clearly marked and signs providing
directions to the housed AED.

   (b)   A Hotel must ensure that there is a trained AED user on staff
during staffed business hours.

(Added Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 55898, § 2)

7-52-040 Maintenance and oversight.

   (a)   A person acquiring an automated external defibrillator shall
take reasonable measures to ensure that:

      (1)   The automated external defibrillator is maintained and
tested according to the manufacturer's guidelines;

      (2)   Any person considered to be an anticipated rescuer or user
will have successfully completed a course of instruction in accordance
with the standards of a nationally recognized organization, such as the
American Red Cross or the American Heart Association, or a course of
instruction in accordance with existing rules under this Act to use an
automated external defibrillator and to perform cardiovascular
resuscitation (CPR); and

      (3)   Any person who renders out-of-hospital emergency care or
treatment to a person in cardiac arrest by using an automated external
defibrillator activates the EMS system as soon as possible and reports
any clinical use of the automated external defibrillator.

   (b)   A person in possession of an automated external defibrillator
shall notify an agent of the local emergency communications or vehicle
dispatch center of the existence, location, and type of the automated
external defibrillator.

(Added Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 55898, § 2)

7-52-050 Exemption from civil liability.

   (a)   A physician licensed in Illinois to practice medicine in all
its branches who authorizes the purchase of an automated external
defibrillator is not liable for civil damages as a result of any act or
omission arising out of authorizing the purchase of an automated
external defibrillator, except for willful or wanton misconduct, if the
requirements of the Illinois Automated External Defibrillator Act (410
ILCS 4/10, et seq.) are met.

   (b)   An individual or entity providing training in the use of
automated external defibrillators is not liable for civil damages as a
result of any act or omission involving the use of an automated external
defibrillator, except for willful or wanton misconduct, if the
requirements of the Illinois Automated External Defibrillator Act (410
ILCS 4/10, et seq.) are met.

   (c)   A person, unit of state or local government, sheriff's office,
municipal police department, or school district owning, occupying, or
managing the premises where an automated external defibrillator is
located is not liable for civil damages as a result of any act or
omission involving the use of an automated external defibrillator,
except for willful or wanton misconduct, if the requirements of the
Illinois Automated External Defibrillator Act (410 ILCS 4/10, et seq.)
are met.

   (d)   An AED user is not liable for civil damages as a result of any
act or omission involving the use of an automated external defibrillator
in an emergency situation, except for willful or wanton misconduct, if
the requirements of the Illinois Automated External Defibrillator Act
(410 ILCS 4/10, et seq.) are met.

(Added Coun. J. 10-11-17, p. 55898, § 2)

CHAPTER 7-58
EMERGENCY ENERGY PLAN

7-58-010   Definitions.

7-58-020   Submittal of emergency energy plan.

7-58-030   Review of plan.

7-58-040   Implementation of emergency energy plan.

7-58-050   Violations; Reimbursement.

7-58-060   Construction.

7-58-010 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

   "Electric utility company" means any person engaged in the business
of distributing, transmitting, or otherwise delivering electricity,
regardless of its source, for use or consumption within the city. The
term shall not include any person who delivers electricity to fewer than
50 persons within the city.

   "Emergency energy plan" means a planned course of action developed by
an electric utility company to be implemented when the demand for
electricity exceeds, or is at significant risk of exceeding, the supply.

   "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of Emergency
Management and Communications.

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755,
Art. III, § 1)

7-58-020 Submittal of emergency energy plan.

   (a)   Every electric utility company must adopt and maintain an
emergency energy plan. Every new electric utility company shall adopt
its plan within 30 days after becoming an electric utility company.
Every such company shall submit to the Executive Director of Emergency
Management and Communications, Superintendent of Police, Fire
Commissioner, and Commissioner of Fleet and Facility Management any
emergency energy plan adopted by the company within 24 hours of the time
the plan is adopted. The company shall notify those officials within 24
hours of any significant revisions to a plan and the rationale for the
revisions. Such revisions shall be submitted by the company as soon as
practicable and shall be reviewed and approved by the Executive Director
in accordance with Section 7-58-030.

   (b)   The plan shall include, at a minimum, information detailing:
(1) the circumstances that would require the implementation of the plan;
(2) the levels or stages of the emergency plan; (3) the potential impact
of the plan on public health and safety and on the duties of the City’s
public health and safety agencies; (4) what steps the company has taken
to mitigate those potential health or safety problems; (5) the
geographic limits of each outage area; (6) the number of customers
within each outage area; (7) identification of customers and facilities
within each outage area for which a service interruption would pose
increased risk to public health and safety, including but not limited
to, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, buildings in excess of 80 feet in
height, day-care centers, persons on life-support systems and water
pumping stations; and (8) the anticipated sequence and duration of
service interruptions.

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, §
3.29; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390,
Art. III, § 11; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. I, § 13)

7-58-030 Review of plan.

   Upon submission of the emergency energy plan required under Section
7-58-020, the Executive Director, in consultation with the
Superintendent of Police, Fire Commissioner, and Commissioner of Fleet
and Facility Management, or their respective departmental designees,
shall review the plan. In order to assure appropriate coordination with
public health and safety agencies, the Executive Director shall have the
right to approve or reject the plan or any element thereof based on: (1)
the potential impact of the plan on public health and safety, (2) the
potential impact of the plan on the duties of the City’s public health
and safety agencies; and (3) what steps the company has taken to
mitigate those potential health or safety problems. Within 30 days after
the date on which the plan is submitted, the Executive Director shall
notify the electric utility company, in writing, whether the submitted
plan has been approved or rejected. If the plan is rejected, the reasons
therefor shall be stated in writing. In such case, within 30 days after
notice of the rejection is given, the electric utility company shall
submit a revised plan to the Executive Director, Superintendent of
Police, Fire Commissioner and Commissioner of Fleet and Facility
Management, or their respective designees. Following consultation with
the Superintendent of Police, Fire Commissioner and Commissioner of
Fleet and Facility Management, the Executive Director shall approve or
reject the revised plan, in writing, within 30 days after the date on
which it is resubmitted. An electric utility company shall be in
violation of this chapter if such company fails to have in place an
emergency energy plan approved by the Executive Director within 120 days
after the plan is required to be submitted under subsection 7-58-020(a).

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755,
Art. III, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390, Art. III, § 12; Amend
Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. I, § 13)

7-58-040 Implementation of emergency energy plan.

   (a)   Whenever an electric utility company determines that it is
necessary to implement an emergency energy plan, the company shall
notify the Executive Director, Superintendent of Police, Fire
Commissioner, and Commissioner of Fleet and Facility Management, or
their respective designees, pursuant to a notification procedure
approved by the Executive Director after consultation with the
Superintendent of Police, Fire Commissioner, and Commissioner of Fleet
and Facility Management. The notification shall be made as soon as
practicable and shall be made prior to implementation of the plan. The
Executive Director may waive the notice requirement to accommodate
exigent circumstances.

   (b)   Notice of the implementation of each level or stage of the
emergency energy plan shall be made under this section pursuant to rules
promulgated by the Executive Director after consultation with the
Superintendent of Police, Fire Commissioner, and Commissioner of Fleet
and Facility Management. The notification shall be made for each of the
following actions:

      (1)   the use of operating reserves – spinning;

      (2)   the curtailment of service to "interruptible" customers
(customers who have agreed to the interruption of service under certain
circumstances pursuant to their contact with the electrical utility
company);

      (3)   the declaration of a control area emergency;

      (4)   a public appeal for voluntary curtailment of electricity use
(the notification shall include the specific wording of the appeal);

      (5)   the determination of the need for an intentional
interruption of service pursuant to the emergency plan (the notification
shall include the areas to be interrupted; the sequence and estimated
duration of outage for each area; and the affected feeders and number of
affected customers in each area); and

      (6)   such other actions requiring notice pursuant to rules
promulgated by the Executive Director under this section.

      The notification of such intentional service interruptions shall
be made immediately upon the determination that the interruptions are
necessary. Whenever practical, the notification shall be made at least
two hours prior to the time of the interruption and in no case shall the
notification be made less than 30 minutes prior to the interruption.

   (c)   Notification required by this section shall be in addition to
any notification requirements contained in Section 2-29-060 of this
Code.

   (d)   Whenever an electric utility company implements an emergency
energy plan, the company shall provide appropriate personnel, as
determined by the Executive Director, to staff the City's Office of
Emergency Management and Communications and any other City emergency
response facility that the Executive Director determines requires such
staffing while the company's emergency energy plan is being implemented.

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99026, §
8.6; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. III, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390,
Art. III, § 13; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. I, § 13)

7-58-050 Violations; reimbursement.

   (a)   Any electric utility company that violates this chapter or any
rules promulgated thereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$2,500.00 and not more than $10,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

   (b)   Whenever the city incurs any expenses in providing the services
of public health and safety agencies as the result of: (1) an electric
utility company's violation of this chapter or rules promulgated
thereunder; or (2) the intentional interruption of power by an electric
utility whether or not pursuant to an emergency energy plan; that
company shall reimburse the city for all amounts expended within 30 days
of receipt of a certified invoice from the city.

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140)

7-58-060 Construction.

   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to preclude or interfere
with the implementation by an electric utility company of measures
necessary to assure the provision of adequate, efficient, reliable and
environmentally safe service, as required by the Illinois Public
Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.).

(Added Coun. J. 9-9-98, p. 77140)

CHAPTER 7-59
NATURAL GAS EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN

7-59-010   Definitions.

7-59-020   Submission of natural gas emergency response plan.

7-59-030   Review of plan.

7-59-040   Implementation of natural gas emergency response plan when
demand exceeds or is at significant risk of exceeding the supply of gas.

7-59-050   Implementation of natural gas emergency response plan during
a gas pipeline emergency or an unplanned interruption of delivery or
distribution.

7-59-060   Violations; reimbursement.

7-59-070   Construction.

7-59-010 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:

   "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of Emergency
Management and Communications.

   "Gas utility company" means any person engaged in the business of
distributing, transmitting or otherwise delivering gas, regardless of
its source, for use or consumption within the city. The term shall not
include any person who delivers gas to fewer than 50 persons within the
city.

   "Natural gas emergency response plan" means a planned course of
action developed by a gas utility company to be implemented when (i) the
demand for gas exceeds, or is at significant risk of exceeding, the
supply of gas, or (ii) during any gas pipeline emergency in the city or
(iii) for any unplanned interruption of the delivery or distribution of
gas to more than ten customers due to a single event. For purposes of
this chapter each unit in a building containing two or more dwelling
units or commercial units shall also be counted as a customer.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p.
61755, Art. III, § 5)

7-59-020 Submission of natural gas emergency response plan.

   (a)   Every gas utility company must adopt and maintain a natural gas
emergency response plan. Every new gas utility company shall adopt its
plan within 30

days after becoming a gas utility company. Every such company shall
submit a natural gas emergency response plan to the Executive Director,
Superintendent of Police, and Fire Commissioner, no later than 24 hours
of the time the plan is adopted. The company shall notify those
officials, within 24 hours, of any significant revisions to the plan and
of the rationale for the revisions. Such revisions shall be submitted by
the company as soon as practicable and shall be reviewed and approved by
the Executive Director in accordance with Section 7-59-030.

   (b)   The natural gas emergency response plan shall include, at a
minimum, information detailing: (1) the circumstances that would require
the implementation of the plan; (2) an identification and complete
description of the levels, stages or steps of the plan; (3) the
potential impact of implementation of the plan on public health and
safety and on the duties of the City's public health and safety
agencies; (4) the actions the company has taken to mitigate potential
health or safety problems; (5) and the identification of customers and
facilities for which a service interruption would pose increased risk to
public health and safety, including but not limited to, apartment
buildings, nursing homes, schools, day-care centers, persons in critical
health or life-support environments.

   (c)   The natural gas emergency response plan shall include general
system operations information, including, but not limited to: (1) an
overview of the gas distribution system, including a description of each
of the major components of a gas distribution system that is necessary
for proper operation of the system; (2) an electronically mapped version
of the utility's system infrastructure, including mains and other gas
distribution equipment serving two or more end-user gas consumers; (3)
descriptions of the types of emergencies that are or can be experienced
by each of the major components of a gas distribution system as
described in (1) above; (4) descriptions of how each type of emergency
is remedied by the company; and (5) descriptions of the types and
frequency of emergencies experienced on the company's system during the
past year. The information required by this paragraph shall be updated
on an annual basis and provided to the Executive Director by September 1
of each year.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916,
§ 3.30; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. III, § 6)

7-59-030 Review of plan.

   Upon submission of the natural gas emergency response plan required
under Section 7-59-020, the Executive Director, in consultation with the
Superintendent of Police and Fire Commissioner, or their respective
departmental designees, shall review the plan. In order to assure
appropriate coordination with public health and safety agencies, the
Executive Director shall have the right to approve or reject the plan or
any element thereof based on: (a) the potential impact of implementation
of the plan on public health and safety, (b) the potential impact of
implementation of the plan on the duties of the City's public health and
safety agencies; and (c) what steps the company has taken to mitigate
those potential health or safety problems.

   Within 30 days after the date on which the plan is submitted, the
Executive Director shall notify the gas utility company, in writing,
whether the submitted plan has been approved or rejected. If the plan is
rejected, the reasons therefor shall be stated in writing. In such case,
within 30 days after notice of the rejection is given, the gas utility
company shall submit a revised plan to the Executive Director,
Superintendent of Police and Fire Commissioner, or their respective
designees. Following consultation with the Superintendent of Police and
Fire Commissioner, the Executive Director shall approve or reject the
revised plan, in writing, within 30 days after the date on which the
plan is resubmitted. A gas utility company shall be in violation of this
chapter if such company fails to have in place a natural gas emergency
response plan approved by the Executive Director within 120 days after
the plan is required to be submitted under subsection 7-59-020(a).

   The gas utility company shall, on an annual basis, make available the
appropriate operations personnel to meet with the City's public health
and safety agencies to assure appropriate coordination between the
company and the City.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p.
61755, Art. III, § 7)

7-59-040 Implementation of natural gas emergency response plan when
demand exceeds or is at significant risk of exceeding the supply of gas.

   (a)   Whenever a gas utility company determines that it may be
necessary to implement a natural gas emergency response plan because
projected demand for gas exceeds or is at significant risk of exceeding
the projected supply of gas, the company shall notify the Executive
Director, Superintendent of Police and Fire Commissioner, or their
respective designees, pursuant to a notification procedure approved by
the Executive Director after consultation with the Superintendent of
Police and Fire Commissioner. The notification shall be made by the
company as soon as practicable and shall be made prior to implementation
of the plan. The Executive Director may waive the notice requirement to
accommodate exigent circumstances.

   (b)   Notice of the implementation of each level, stage or step of
the natural gas emergency response plan shall be made by the company
pursuant to rules promulgated by the Executive Director after
consultation with the Superintendent of Police and Fire Commissioner.
Such notice shall be made immediately upon the determination that the
level, stage or step may be necessary. Whenever practical, such
notification shall be made at least two hours prior to the
implementation of the level, stage or step and in no case shall the
notification be made less than 30 minutes prior to such implementation.

   (c)   Notification required by this section shall be in addition to
any notification requirements contained in Section 11-20-065 of this
Code.

   (d)   Whenever a gas utility company implements a natural gas
emergency response plan because demand for gas exceeds or is at
significant risk of exceeding the supply of gas, the company shall
provide appropriate personnel, as determined by the Executive Director,
to staff the City's Office of Emergency Management and Communications
and any other emergency response facility that the Executive Director
determines requires such staffing while the company's natural gas
emergency response plan is being implemented.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. III, § 8)

7-59-050 Implementation of natural gas emergency response plan during a
gas pipeline emergency or an unplanned interruption of delivery or
distribution.

   (a)   Whenever a gas utility company determines that it is necessary
to implement a natural gas emergency response plan because of a gas
pipeline emergency in the City or because of an unplanned interruption
of delivery or distribution of gas to more than ten customers due to a
single event or the company's response to the event, the company shall
notify the Executive Director of Emergency Management and
Communications, Superintendent of Police and Fire Commissioner, or their
respective designees, pursuant to a notification procedure approved by
the Executive Director after consultation with the Superintendent of
Police and Fire Commissioner. The notification from the utility shall
include: (1) location of incident; (2) location of utility
infrastructure in the vicinity of the incident; (3) estimated time to
eliminate immediate danger to public health and safety; (4) estimated
time of service restoration to customers and proposed method or order
that will be used to restore service; (5) the number of customers
affected; (6) geographic boundaries of the area affected; (7) critical
facilities affected; (8) immediate updates concerning the information
provided under subparagraphs (3), (4), (6) and (7) of this paragraph to
the extent that information previously provided has changed, and
periodic updates regarding the incident if there is no change to
information previously provided; and (9) any necessary or appropriate
additional details required by the Executive Director.

   (b)   Notification required by this section shall be in addition to
any notification requirements contained in Section 11-20-065 of this
Code.

   (c)   Whenever a gas utility company implements a natural gas
emergency response plan because delivery or distribution of gas is
interrupted, the Executive Director may request, and the company shall
provide, appropriate personnel, as determined by the Executive Director,
to staff the City's Office of Emergency Management and Communications
and any other City emergency response facility that the Executive
Director determines requires such staffing while the company's natural
gas emergency response plan is being implemented.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-21-17, p. 61755, Art. III, § 9)

7-59-060 Violations; reimbursement.

   (a)   Any gas utility company that violates this chapter or any rules
promulgated hereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$2,500.00 and not more than $10,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

   (b)   Whenever the city incurs any expenses in providing the services
of public health and safety agencies as the result of a gas utility
company's violation of this chapter or rules promulgated thereunder,
that company shall reimburse the city for all amounts expended, within
30 days of receipt of a certified invoice from the city.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1)

7-59-070 Construction.

   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to preclude or interfere
with the implementation by a gas utility company of measures necessary
to assure the provision of adequate, efficient, reliable and
environmentally safe service as required by the Illinois Public
Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/1-101, et seq.) or by applicable federal law.

(Added Coun. J. 5-1-02, p. 84053, § 1)

TITLE 8
OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS AND WELFARE

   Ch. 8-4   Public Peace and Welfare

   Ch. 8-8   Public Morals

   Ch. 8-12   Gambling

   Ch. 8-16   Offenses By or Against Minors

   Ch. 8-20   Weapons

   Ch. 8-24   Firearms and Other Weapons

   Ch. 8-26   Gun Offender Registration Ordinance

   Ch. 8-28   Reserved

   Ch. 8-30   Evictions for Unlawful Use of Premises

   Ch. 8-32   Noise and Vibration Control

CHAPTER 8-4
PUBLIC PEACE AND WELFARE

8-4-010   Disorderly conduct.

8-4-015   Gang loitering.

8-4-016   Prostitution-related loitering.

8-4-017   Narcotics-related loitering.

8-4-018   Marijuana flavored candy.

8-4-020   Inciting riots, etc.

8-4-025   Reserved.

8-4-026   Threats or intimidation in public places.

8-4-030   Drinking in public ways – Exceptions.

8-4-035   Navy Pier – Restrictions on alcohol.

8-4-037   Vessels docked along Navy Pier – Restrictions on alcohol.

8-4-040   Defacing and injuring house of worship and cemeteries.

8-4-045   Unlawful representation of military honors.

8-4-050   Trespassing.

8-4-052   Unlocking wireless communication devices.

8-4-053   Stolen cell phone database.

8-4-054   Outdoor pay telephones prohibited.

8-4-055   Sound-emitting devices on public conveyances.

8-4-056   False burglar alarms.

8-4-058   Reserved.

8-4-059   Possession of scanners illegal.

8-4-060   Vandalism defined.

8-4-061   Disposition of certain fines.

8-4-065   Interference with utility equipment.

8-4-070   Responsibility of parent or legal guardian.

8-4-075   Threatening a community policing volunteer.

8-4-076   Assault against emergency workers.

8-4-077   Assault against City employees, officials, and contractors
with enforcement authority.

8-4-080   Definitions – Assault defined – Mandatory sentence.

8-4-081   Public urination or defecation.

8-4-084   Bullying and harassment.

8-4-085   Hate crimes.

8-4-086   Prohibition against racial profiling.

8-4-087   Chronic illegal activity premises.

8-4-090   Drug and gang houses, houses of prostitution and other
disorderly houses.

8-4-091   Prohibited manner of managing or controlling real estate.

8-4-100   Reserved.

8-4-110   Disturbing places of worship.

8-4-120   Damage to public property.

8-4-125   Use of cell phones/cameras/camera phones in public privacy
areas.

8-4-126   Unauthorized video recording and live video transmission –
"Upskirting" and other related offenses.

8-4-127   Cyberstalking and cyber-flashing.

8-4-130   Possession of etching materials, paint or marker unlawful.

8-4-135   Defacement of commercial vehicles.

8-4-140   Injuring or obstructing signal systems.

8-4-145   False alarms.

8-4-147   Unlawful threatening objects.

8-4-148   Sale or possession of body armor.

8-4-150   Use of sirens for air raid alarms only.

8-4-160   Reserved.

8-4-170   Reserved.

8-4-180   Possessing burglar's tools.

8-4-190   Throwing objects on athletic fields.

8-4-195   Illegal conduct within sports facilities.

8-4-200   Objects on sills or railings.

8-4-210   Reserved.

8-4-220   Clay holes and excavations.

8-4-230   Use of flag – Misdemeanor.

8-4-240   Ragpicking – Peddling – Junk collection.

8-4-250   Trespassing on property.

8-4-260   Trespassing on elevated track.

8-4-270   Advertising and signs on buildings.

8-4-280   Removing sod or earth.

8-4-290   Removal of sod along public way.

8-4-300   Reserved.

8-4-305   Unlawful representation as transportation network driver.

8-4-310   Forging signatures.

8-4-315   Fraud relating to official documents.

8-4-320   Deceptive advertising.

8-4-321   International wire transfers – Posting of notice required.

8-4-325   Deceptive practices – Residential real estate.

8-4-330   Recruitment restrictions.

8-4-340   Charitable entertainments – Restriction on promotional
materials.

8-4-350   Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in public
transportation safety zones.

8-4-355   Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in student safety
zones, parks or playgrounds.

8-4-356   Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in senior and
nursing home safety zones.

8-4-360   Violation – Penalty.

8-4-010 Disorderly conduct.

   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:

      (a)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make
or aid in making a breach of peace; or

      (b)   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance,
gesture or display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and
present danger of a breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or

      (c)   Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or
activity likely to produce a breach of peace where there is an imminent
threat of violence, and where the police have made all reasonable
efforts to protect the otherwise peaceful conduct and activity, and have
requested that said conduct and activity be stopped and explained the
request if there be time; or

      (d)   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a peace officer
who has identified himself as such, or is otherwise reasonably
identifiable as such, issued under circumstances where three or more
persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, which acts are likely to cause substantial harm; or

      (e)   Fails to obey an order by a peace officer, traffic control
aide, fire department official, or other official, who has identified
himself as such, or is otherwise reasonably identifiable as such, issued
under circumstances where it is reasonable to believe that the order is
necessary to allow public safety officials to address a situation that
threatens the public health, safety, or welfare; or

      (f)   Assembles with three or more persons for the purpose of
using force or violence to disturb the public peace; or

      (g)   Remains in the public way in a manner that blocks customer
access to a commercial establishment, after being asked to clear the
entrance by the person in charge of such establishment; or

      (h)   Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence
of alcohol, narcotics or other drug, not therapeutically administered,
to the degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property,
or annoy persons in his vicinity; or

      (i)   Reserved.

      (j)   Either: (1) knowingly approaches another person within eight
feet of such person, unless such other person consents, for the purpose
of passing a leaflet or handbill to, displaying a sign to, or engaging
in oral protest, education, or counseling with such other person in the
public way within a radius of 50 feet from any entrance door to a
hospital, medical clinic or healthcare facility, or (2) by force or
threat of force or by physical obstruction, intentionally injures,
intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure, intimidate or
interfere with any person entering or leaving any hospital, medical
clinic or healthcare facility.

   A person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be fined not more than
$500.00 for each offense, though for a second or subsequent violation of
subsection (j), the violator shall be fined $1,000.00.

(Prior code § 193-1; Amend Coun. J. 3-27-02, p. 82299, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 5.1; Amend Coun. J. 4-9-03, p. 106396, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81863, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-17-09, p.
72710, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 12-12-12, p. 44056, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 9-21-22, p. 51937, § 2)

8-4-015 Gang loitering.

   (a)   Whenever a police officer observes a member of a criminal
street gang engaged in gang loitering with one or more other persons in
any public place designated for the enforcement of this section under
subsection (b), the police officer shall, subject to all applicable
procedures promulgated by the superintendent of police: (i) inform all
such persons that they are engaged in gang loitering within an area in
which loitering by groups containing criminal street gang members is
prohibited; (ii) order all such persons to disperse and remove
themselves from within sight and hearing of the place at which the order
was issued; and (iii) inform those persons that they will be subject to
arrest if they fail to obey the order promptly or engage in further gang
loitering within sight or hearing of the place at which the order was
issued during the next eight hours.

   (b)   The superintendent of police shall by written directive
designate areas of the city in which the superintendent has determined
that enforcement of this section is necessary because gang loitering has
enabled criminal street gangs to establish control over identifiable
areas, to intimidate others from entering those areas, or to conceal
illegal activities. Prior to making a determination under this
subsection, the superintendent shall consult as he or she deems
appropriate with persons who are knowledgeable about the effects of gang
activity in areas in which the ordinance may be enforced. Such persons
may include, but need not be limited to, members of the department of
police with special training or experience related to criminal street
gangs; other personnel of that department with particular knowledge of
gang activities in the proposed designated area; elected and appointed
officials of the area; community-based organizations; and participants
in the Chicago Alternative Policing Strategy who are familiar with the
area. The superintendent shall develop and implement procedures for the
periodic review and update of designations made under this subsection.

   (c)   The superintendent shall by written directive promulgate
procedures to prevent the enforcement of this section against persons
who are engaged in collective advocacy activities that are protected by
the Constitution of the United States or the State of Illinois.

   (d)   As used in this section:

      (1)   Gang loitering means remaining in any one place under
circumstances that would warrant a reasonable person to believe that the
purpose or effect of that behavior is to enable a criminal street gang
to establish control over identifiable areas, to intimidate others from
entering those areas, or to conceal illegal activities.

      (2)   Criminal street gang means any ongoing organization,
association in fact or group of three or more persons, whether formal or
informal, having as one of its substantial activities the commission of
one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in paragraph (3), and whose
members individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a
pattern of criminal gang activity.

      (3)   Criminal gang activity means the commission, attempted
commission or solicitation of the following offenses, provided that the
offenses are committed by two or more persons, or by an individual at
the direction of, or in association with, any criminal street gang, with
the specific intent to promote, further or assist in any criminal
conduct by gang members: the following sections of the Criminal Code of
1961: 9-1 (murder), 9-3.3 (drug-induced homicide), 10-1 (kidnapping),
10-4 (forcible detention), subsection (a)(13) of Section 12-2
(aggravated assault – discharging firearm), 12-4 (aggravated battery),
12-4.1 (heinous battery), 12-4.2 (aggravated battery with a firearm),
12-4.3 (aggravated battery of a child), 12-4.6 (aggravated battery of a
senior citizen), 12-6 (intimidation), 12-6.1 (compelling organization
membership of persons), 12-11 (home invasion), 12-14 (aggravated
criminal sexual assault), 18-1 (robbery), 18-2 (armed robbery), 19-1
(burglary), 19-3 (residential burglary), 19-5 (criminal fortification of
a residence or building), 20-1 (arson), 20-1.1 (aggravated arson), 20-2
(possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices),
subsections (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(9) or (a)(12) of Section 24-1 (unlawful
use of weapons), 24-1.1 (unlawful use or possession of weapons by felons
or persons in the custody of the department of corrections facilities),
24-1.2 (aggravated discharge of a firearm), subsection (d) of Section
25-1 (mob action – violence), 33-1 (bribery), 33A-2 (armed violence),
Sections 5, 5.1, 7 or 9 of the Cannabis Control Act where the offense is
a felony (manufacture or delivery of cannabis, cannabis trafficking,
calculated criminal cannabis conspiracy and related offenses), or
Sections 401, 401.1, 405, 406.1, 407 or 407.1 of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act (illegal manufacture or delivery of a controlled
substance, controlled substance trafficking, calculated criminal drug
conspiracy and related offenses).

      (4)   Pattern of criminal gang activity means two or more acts of
criminal gang activity of which at least two such acts were committed
within five years of each other.

      (5)   Public place means the public way and any other location
open to the public, whether publicly or privately owned.

   (e)   Any person who fails to obey promptly an order issued under
subsection (a), or who engages in further gang loitering within sight or
hearing of the place at which such an order was issued during the
eight-hour period following the time the order was issued, is subject to
a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00 for each
offense, or imprisonment for not more than six months for each offense,
or both. A second or subsequent offense shall be punishable by a
mandatory minimum sentence of not less than five days imprisonment.

   In addition to or instead of the above penalties, any person who
violates this section may be required to perform up to 120 hours of
community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this Code.

   (f)   Upon a third or subsequent conviction for a violation of
subsection (e) of this section or subsection (d) of Section 8-4-017, or
any combination thereof, within any 12-month period, a court, in
addition to imposing the penalties prescribed in that subsection, shall
enter an order requiring the convicted person to refrain, for a
mandatory period of 30 days, from gang loitering, or narcotics-related
loitering as defined in Section 8-4-017, within sight and hearing of the
place of the police officer's order issued under subsection (a) which
served as the basis for the person's most recent conviction, unless
circumstances strongly mandate that such period should be shorter. Such
an order must be obeyed regardless of whether any additional warning or
notice is given to the person. Any person who violates an order issued
by a court under this subsection (f) shall be subject to a mandatory
minimum sentence of not less than five days imprisonment but not more
than six months imprisonment, plus a fine of not less than $100.00 and
not more than $500.00, for each violation. In addition to or instead of
the penalties prescribed in this subsection (f), any person who violates
an order issued by a court under this subsection (f) may be required to
perform up to 120 hours of community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120
of this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 6-17-92 p. 18292; Amend Coun. J. 2-16-00, p. 25705, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p. 81865, § 1)

Editor's note – Prior to amendment by Coun. J. 2-16-00, p. 25705, § 1,
this section pertained to gang-related congregations.

8-4-016 Prostitution-related loitering.

   (a)   Whenever a police officer observes one or more persons engaged
in prostitution-related loitering in any public place designated for the
enforcement of this section under subsection (b), the police officer
shall: (i) inform all such persons that they are engaged in loitering
within an area in which such loitering is prohibited; (ii) order all
such persons to disperse and remove themselves from within sight and
hearing of the place at which the order was issued; and (iii) inform
those persons that they will be subject to arrest if they fail to obey
the order promptly or engage in further prostitution-related loitering
within sight or hearing of the place at which the order was issued
during the next eight hours.

   (b)   The Superintendent of Police shall by written directive
designate areas of the city in which enforcement of this section is
necessary because the areas are frequently associated with
prostitution-related loitering. Prior to making a determination under
this subsection, the Superintendent shall consult as he or she deems
appropriate with persons who are knowledgeable about the effects of
prostitution-related activity in areas in which this section may be
enforced. Such persons may include, but need not be limited to, members
of the Department of Police with special training or experience related
to prostitution-related activity; other personnel of that Department
with particular knowledge of prostitution-related activities in the
proposed designated area; elected and appointed officials of the area;
community-based organizations; and participants in the Chicago
Alternative Police Strategy who are familiar with the area. The
Superintendent shall develop and implement procedures for the periodic
review and update of designations made under this subsection.

   (c)   As used in this section:

      (1)   Prostitution-related loitering means remaining in any one
place under circumstances that would warrant a reasonable person to
believe that the purpose or effect of that behavior is to facilitate
prostitution as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 or solicitation of a sexual
act as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14.1, patronizing a prostitute as
defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-18, or patronizing a minor engaged in
prostitution as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-18.1.

      (2)   Public place means the public way and any other location
open to the public, whether publicly or privately owned.

   (d)   Any person who fails to obey promptly an order issued under
subsection (a), or who engages in further prostitution-related loitering
within sight or hearing of the place at which such an order was issued
during the eight-hour period following the time the order was issued, is
subject to a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $500.00 for
each offense, or imprisonment for not more than six months for each
offense, or both. A second or subsequent offense shall be punishable by
a mandatory minimum sentence of not less than five days imprisonment.

   In addition to or instead of the above penalties, any person who
violates this section may be required to perform up to 120 hours of
community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this Code.

   (e)   Upon a third or subsequent conviction for a violation of
subsection (d) or subsection (e) of Section 8-4-015 or Section 8-4-017,
or any combination thereof, within a 12-month period, a court, in
addition to imposing the penalties prescribed in that subsection, shall
enter an order requiring the convicted person to refrain, for a
mandatory period of 30 days, from narcotics-related loitering,
prostitution-related loitering, or gang-loitering as defined in Section
8-4-015, Section 8-4-016, or Section 8-4-017, within sight and hearing
of the place of the police officer’s order issued under subsection (a)
which served as the basis for the person’s most recent conviction,
unless circumstances strongly mandate that such period should be
shorter. Such an order must be obeyed regardless of whether any
additional warning or notice is given to the person. Any person who
violates an order issued by a court under this subsection (e) shall be
subject to a mandatory minimum sentence of not less than five days
imprisonment but not more than six months imprisonment, plus a fine of
not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00, for each violation. In
addition to or instead of the penalties prescribed in this subsection
(e), any person who violates an order issued by a court under this
subsection (e) may be required to perform up to 120 hours of community
service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this Code.

   (f)   It shall be an affirmative defense to penalties under this
section for a person who engages in prostitution-related loitering that
the person was under duress or was coerced into violating any provision
of this section. A victim of trafficking in persons, pursuant to
relevant state or federal laws, shall not be deemed criminally liable
for any violation of this section committed as a direct result of, or
incident related to, being trafficked. Where such affirmative defense is
applicable to a person who engages in prostitution-related loitering,
such affirmative defense shall not apply to the person creating such
coercion or duress, or knew or should have known of the existence of
such coercion or duress.

(Added Coun. J. 6-27-18 p. 80207, § 1)

8-4-017 Narcotics-related loitering.

   (a)   Whenever a police officer observes one or more persons engaged
in narcotics-related loitering in any public place designated for the
enforcement of this section under subsection (b), the police officer
shall: (i) inform all such persons that they are engaged in loitering
within an area in which such loitering is prohibited; (ii) order all
such persons to disperse and remove themselves from within sight and
hearing of the place at which the order was issued; and (iii) inform
those persons that they will be subject to arrest if they fail to obey
the order promptly or engage in further narcotics-related loitering
within sight or hearing of the place at which the order was issued
during the next eight hours.

   (b)   The superintendent of police shall by written directive
designate areas of the city in which enforcement of this section is
necessary because the areas are frequently associated with
narcotics-related loitering. Prior to making a determination under this
subsection, the superintendent shall consult as he or she deems
appropriate with persons who are knowledgeable about the effects of
narcotics-related activity in areas in which the ordinance may be
enforced. Such persons may include, but need not be limited to, members
of the department of police with special training or experience related
to narcotics-related activity; other personnel of that department with
particular knowledge of narcotics- related activities in the proposed
designated area; elected and appointed officials of the area; community-
based organizations; and participants in the Chicago Alternative
Policing Strategy who are familiar with the area. The superintendent
shall develop and implement procedures for the periodic review and
update of designations made under this subsection.

   (c)   As used in this section:

      (1)   Narcotics-related loitering means remaining in any one place
under circumstances that would warrant a reasonable person to believe
that the purpose or effect of that behavior is to facilitate the
distribution of substances in violation of the Cannabis Control Act or
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act.

      (2)   Public place means the public way and any other location
open to the public, whether publicly or privately owned.

   (d)   Any person who fails to obey promptly an order issued under
subsection (a), or who engages in further narcotics-related loitering
within sight or hearing of the place at which such an order was issued
during the eight-hour period following the time the order was issued, is
subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00 for
each offense, or imprisonment for not more than six months for each
offense, or both. A second or subsequent offense shall be punishable by
a mandatory minimum sentence of not less than five days imprisonment.

      In addition to or instead of the above penalties, any person who
violates this section may be required to perform up to 120 hours of
community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this Code.

   (e)   Upon a third or subsequent conviction for a violation of
subsection (d) of this section or subsection (e) of Section 8-4-015, or
any combination thereof, within any 12-month period, a court, in
addition to imposing the penalties prescribed in that subsection, shall
enter an order requiring the convicted person to refrain, for a
mandatory period of 30 days, from narcotics-related loitering, or gang
loitering as defined in Section 8-4-015, within sight and hearing of the
place of the police officer's order issued under subsection (a) which
served as the basis for the person's most recent conviction, unless
circumstances strongly mandate that such period should be shorter. Such
an order must be obeyed regardless of whether any additional warning or
notice is given to the person. Any person who violates an order issued
by a court under this subsection (e) shall be subject to a mandatory
minimum sentence of not less than five days imprisonment but not more
than six months imprisonment, plus a fine of not less than $100.00 and
not more than $500.00, for each violation. In addition to or instead of
the penalties prescribed in this subsection (e), any person who violates
an order issued by a court under this subsection (e) may be required to
perform up to 120 hours of community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120
of this Code.

(Added Coun. J. 2-16-00, p. 25705, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-26-06, p.
81865, § 1)

8-4-018 Marijuana flavored candy.

   (a)   Definitions.

      (1)   "Person" shall mean any natural person, individual,
corporation, unincorporated association, proprietorship, firm,
partnership, joint venture, joint stock association or other entity or
business organization of any kind.

      (2)   "Marijuana flavored candy" shall mean a lollipop, gumdrop or
other candy which is flavored to taste like marijuana including, but not
limited to, "Chronic Candy®".

   (b)   No person shall sell, give away, barter, exchange or otherwise
furnish any marijuana flavored candy or other confection, dessert or
food item which is flavored to taste like marijuana. No person shall
make or manufacture any marijuana flavored candy or other confection,
dessert or food item which is flavored to taste like marijuana.

   (c)   Any person who violates this subsection upon conviction shall
be punished as follows for each offense:

      (1)   a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for
each offense; and

      (2)   any repeat violations of any provision of Section 8-4-018 by
a licensee shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of such
license. For purposes of this section, "license" includes any and all
licenses issued by any officer, department or agency of the City of
Chicago required for retail or other business operations at the location
at which the offense occurred, and includes but is not limited to retail
licenses.

      (3)   for purposes of this section, each sale equals one violation
of this subsection.

   (d)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, or part of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid
by any final court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 6-29-05, p. 51334, § 2)

8-4-020 Inciting riots, etc.

   It is unlawful to create a clear and present danger of a riot or
assault, battery, or other unlawful trespass against any person or group
of persons because of his or her race, religion, color, national origin,
active or prior military status, or ancestry, or to create a clear and
present danger of arson, vandalism, defacement, or other unlawful
trespass against property because of the race, religion, color, national
origin, active or prior military status, or ancestry of the owner,
possessor, or authorized user or users of said property, or, in the case
of a cemetery, of the decedent buried therein.

   The term "person" as used in this section shall include one or more
individuals, copartnerships, corporations, firms, organizations,
associations, leagues, or other bodies.

   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 or imprisoned for not less
than ten days or more than six months, or both, for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-1.1) (Amend Coun. J. 11-18-15, p. 14409, § 2)

8-4-025 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. V, § 6, repealed §
8-4-025, which pertained to aggressive panhandling.

8-4-026 Threats or intimidation in public places.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:

   "Assault" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 12-1 of
the Illinois Criminal Code, codified at 720 ILCS 5/12-1.

   "Intimidate" has the meaning ascribed to the term "intimidation" in
Section 12-6 of the Illinois Criminal Code, codified at 720 ILCS 5/12-6.

   "Public place" means any public way, parkway, plaza or any other
exterior location held, maintained or controlled by the City for the use
of the general public.

   (b)   Unlawful conduct – Prohibited. No person shall assault or
intimidate any other person in any public place.

   (c)   Penalty for violation. Any person who violates this section
shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 for a first or second offense
within any 12-month period, and a fine of $100.00 for a third or
subsequent offense within any 12-month period. In addition to or instead
of the fine set forth herein, any person who violates this section may
be required to perform community service pursuant to Section 1-4-020.

(Added Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art. V, § 7)

8-4-030 Drinking in public ways – Exceptions.

   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any
alcoholic liquor as defined by law on any public way or in or about any
motor vehicle upon a public way in the city. Provided, however, that
this subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to:

         (i)   any portion of the public way occupied by a sidewalk cafe
permitted pursuant to Chapter 10-28 of this Code which is properly
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or

         (ii)   any portion of the public way located on Navy Pier, if:
(1) the alcoholic liquor being carried and consumed on such public way
was purchased at an establishment holding a valid liquor license at Navy
Pier under Section 4-60-071; and (2) such alcoholic liquor is in an
approved container that clearly identifies the name of the serving
establishment; and (3) such alcoholic liquor is not brought into or
consumed in any prohibited area designated as such by the Metropolitan
Pier and Exposition Authority, or its designee, in posted signs; or

         (iii)   any venue holding a valid Riverwalk Venue liquor
license under Section 4-60-074.

      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry,
possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor
vehicle upon any public way in the city except: (1) in the original
package and with the seal unbroken, or (2) in a package properly sealed,
bagged and receipted pursuant to Section 6-33 of the Liquor Control Act
of 1934, added by P.A. 94-1047, effective January 1, 2007, and codified
at 235 ILCS 5/6-33, as amended, or (3) in compliance with Section 11-502
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, codified at 625 ILCS 5/11-502, or (4) in
compliance with Section 4-60-082 of this Code.

      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b), any person
who violates this section shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more
than $500.00 or shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of six
months or by both such fine and imprisonment for each offense.

   (b)   Any person who violates this section while within 800 feet of a
parade route which is not open to traffic shall be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 or shall be punished by imprisonment for
a period of up to six months or by both such fine and imprisonment for
each offense. For purposes of this subsection, the term "parade" has the
meaning ascribed to the term in Section 10-8-330 of this Code.

(Prior code § 193-1.2; Amend Coun. J. 4-18-85, p. 15204; Amend Coun. J.
6-14-95, p. 3087; Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56852; Amend Coun. J.
3-15-00, p. 27687, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 2-7-07, p. 98139, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 1-9-08, p. 18918, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 2-13-13, p. 46841, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 5-8-13, p. 52958, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 6-17-15, p. 1337, §
2; Amend Coun. J. 4-19-17, p. 48180, Art. III, § 11; Amend Coun. J.
6-25-21, p. 31925, Art. IV, § 19; Amend Coun. J. 6-22-22, p. 49285 § 3)

8-4-035 Navy Pier – Restrictions on alcohol.

   (a)   Alcohol purchased outside of Navy Pier. It shall be unlawful
for any person to:

      (1)   bring any alcoholic liquor into Navy Pier that was not
purchased at Navy Pier, except for: (i) the delivery of alcoholic liquor
to a business or vessel located on Navy Pier by a deliveryman acting
within the scope of his employment; or (ii) persons boarding or
disembarking from a vessel docked at Navy Pier and passing through Navy
Pier, without delay or detour, for such purpose; or (iii) the Navy Pier
parking garage, which shall be governed by subsection (c) of this
section; or

      (2)   consume any alcoholic liquor purchased outside of Navy Pier
anywhere on Navy Pier.

   (b)   Alcohol purchased inside of Navy Pier – Prohibited areas. It
shall be unlawful for any person who purchases alcoholic liquor at Navy
Pier to: (1) bring any open container of such alcoholic liquor into any
prohibited area on Navy Pier designated as such by the Metropolitan Pier
and Exposition Authority, or its designee, in posted signs; or (2)
consume any alcoholic liquor in any prohibited area.

   (c)   Navy Pier parking garage. It shall be unlawful for any person
to: (1) bring any open container of alcoholic liquor into the Navy Pier
parking garage; or (2) consume any alcoholic liquor in any Navy Pier
parking garage.

   (d)   Penalty for violation. Any person who violates this section
shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00, or
imprisoned for a period not to exceed six months, or both, for each
offense.

   (e)   Definitions. As used in this section:

   "Alcoholic liquor" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section
4-60-010.

(Added Coun. J. 6-17-15, p. 1337, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 6-22-22, p. 49285
§ 4)

8-4-037 Vessels docked along Navy Pier – Restrictions on alcohol.

   (a)   Prohibited act. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring
any open container of alcoholic liquor onto any vessel docked along Navy
Pier.

   (b)   Penalty for violation. Any person who violates this section
shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00, or
imprisoned for a period not to exceed six months, or both, for each
offense.

   (c)   Definitions. As used in this section:

   "Alcoholic liquor" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section
4-60-010.

   "Navy Pier" means the former municipal pier extending into Lake
Michigan from the foot of East Grand Avenue.

   "Vessel" means every description of watercraft used or capable of
being used as a means of transportation on water.

(Added Coun. J. 6-17-15, p. 1337, § 4)

8-4-040 Defacing and injuring house of worship and cemeteries.

   Any person who wilfully defaces, mars, injures, destroys or removes
any vault, tomb, monument, gravestone, memorial of the dead, veterans'
or other military monument or memorial, church, synagogue, or any other
structure constituting a place of worship of any religion, sect or
group, or any part of any contents thereof, or any fence, tree, shrub or
plant appurtenant thereto, shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more
than $750.00, or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both such
fine and imprisonment, for each offense. Each such act of marring,
injuring, destroying or removal shall constitute a separate offense.

(Prior code § 193-1.3; Amend Coun. J. 3-29-06, p. 73632, § 1)

8-4-045 Unlawful representation of military honors.

   No person shall falsely represent himself, verbally or in writing, to
have been awarded any decoration or medal authorized by Congress for the
armed forces of the United States, or any of the service medals or
badges awarded to the members of such forces, or the ribbon, button, or
rosette of any such badge, decoration or medal, or any colorable
imitation thereof, in a situation where the person intends to receive a
material benefit as a result of such representation. It shall also be a
violation of this section for a person to intentionally wear such items
without proper authorization in order to receive a material benefit.

   Furthermore, no person holding any business license issued by the
City of Chicago shall manufacture, sell or make available for sale any
such medals or badges awarded nor the ribbon, button or rosette of such
badge or medal except in accordance with 32 C.F.R. § 507 or successor or
similar federal regulations.

   Any misrepresentation of such military honors made on any city
application for license, permit or employment shall be cause for
revocation or termination of such license, application, permit or
employment if the applicant intentionally made the misrepresentation in
order to influence the result of the application.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 9-14-05, p. 54715, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 9-12-12, p.
33111, § 1)

8-4-050 Trespassing.

   A person commits trespass when he knowingly:

      (a)   Enters the property, or any part thereof, of another when,
immediately prior to such entry, he receives notice, either oral or
written, from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden; or

      (b)   Remains upon the property, or any part thereof, of another
after receiving notice, either oral or written, from the owner or
occupant to depart; or

      (c)   Enters upon property open to the public, or any part
thereof, and remains thereon with a malicious and mischievous intent
after receiving notice, either oral or written, from the owner or
occupant to depart;

      (d)   Wilfully defaces, mars, injures or destroys any building or
part of any building or any property of another with paint, tar, acid,
grease, oil, or other such substance which would detrimentally alter the
outer face or substance of such building or any property of another, or
any fence, tree, shrub or plant appurtenant thereto.

   Any person convicted of trespass shall be fined not less than $100.00
nor more than $500.00.

(Prior code § 193-1.4)

8-4-052 Unlocking wireless communication devices.

   (a)   For the purposes of this section:

      1.   The term "unlock" shall mean any process by which the
software or hardware of a wireless communication device is modified so
as to permit the device's use with a service provider other than the
service provider initially associated with the device.

      2.   The term "wireless communication device" shall mean any
device through which personal wireless services, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
332(c)(7)(C)(i), are transmitted.

   (b)   Any person who unlocks, or attempts to unlock, a wireless
communication device in the city in exchange for a fee or other
compensation must:

      1.   Require the requesting party to provide a driver's license or
other government-issued identification showing the party's name, date of
birth, and address.

      2.   Record the Mobile Equipment Identifier (MEID), International
Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI) or Electronic Serial Number
(ESN) of the wireless communication device.

      3.   Provide every day, before the hour of twelve noon, the
information required in Subsections (b)(1) and (b)(2) to the
superintendent of police, along with the name and address of the person
offering the unlocking service, by submitting a LeadsOnline electronic
reporting form.

      4.   Comply with applicable restrictions or prohibitions on
unlocking wireless communication devices set forth in federal statutes
and regulations including 17 U.S.C. 1201(a)(1) and 17 U.S.C. 1202(b)(1),
as interpreted by the Library of Congress Copyright Office and published
in the Federal Register.

   (c)   It shall be a violation of this section to fail to comply with
subsection (b). This section shall be enforceable by the department of
police and the department of business affairs and consumer protection.
Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense.

   (d)   This section shall not apply to any provider of commercial
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 332(d), that unlocks a wireless
communication device in the city.

(Added Coun. J. 4-30-14, p. 79826, § 1)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 4-22-93, p. 31524, repealed a former § 8-4-052,
which pertained to an anti-loitering and/or trespassing program,
effective January 1, 1995.

8-4-053 Stolen cell phone database.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

      "Provider" means a manufacturer of wireless communication devices,
or a provider of commercial mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
332(d), and such provider's authorized agents and retailers that have
contractual relationships with the provider to sell the provider's
authorized products and services.

      "Serial number" has the meaning ascribed to that term by Section
4-264-005 of this Code.

      "Stolen cell phone database", "trade-in program" and "wireless
communication device" have the meaning ascribed to these terms in
Section 4-264-005.

   (b)   Any provider that does business in the City shall:

      (1)   not purchase or activate for service a secondhand cell phone
that is brought to the provider, and whose make, model and serial number
is identified in a stolen cell phone database. Before purchasing or
activating for service any such secondhand cell phone, the provider
shall check the stolen cell phone database to verify that the cell phone
is not a stolen or lost cell phone;

      (2)   report, within a reasonable time, to the Chicago Department
of Police any secondhand cell phone that is brought to the provider for
sale or activation for service, and whose make, model and serial number
is identified in a stolen cell phone database. Upon request, such
provider shall surrender such cell phone to any member of the City's
Department of Police, if the provider is in possession of the cell
phone; and

      (3)   encourage customers to report the make, model and serial
number of a cell phone for entry into a stolen cell phone database in
the event of the theft or loss of the customer's cell phone. The
requirement of this subsection (b)(3) can be satisfied by providing the
customers of the provider with written or on-line information regarding:
(i) the availability of a stolen cell phone database; and (ii) how to
identify a stolen or lost cell phone in such database, and by posting
similar information in the provider's business premises located in the
City.

   (c)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to any
acquisition of secondhand cell phones by a provider through a trade-in
program.

   (d)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 9-6-17, p. 54980, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 1-26-22, p. 43399,
§ 4)

8-4-054 Outdoor pay telephones prohibited.

   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
install or maintain any telephone booth, mounted telephone, or other
form of pay telephone not enclosed within the interior of a building
unless it is located on the public way and in accordance with Section
10-28-265 of this Code. Any outdoor pay telephone located on property
other than the public way in violation of this section shall be removed
by its owner, any person with control over the payphone, or the owner of
real estate on which the payphone is located, within 30 days after the
effective date of this section.

   (b)   Any person who violates any provision of subsection (a) of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more
than $200.00 for each offense. If an outdoor pay telephone is installed
in violation of this section at substantially the same location where a
telephone was previously removed pursuant to this section, any person
participating in the violation shall be fined not less than $200.00 and
not more than $500.00. Each day that a violation of subsection (a)
continues shall constitute a separate offense. However, for the period
ending six months after the effective date of this amendatory ordinance,
no fine shall be imposed with respect to a telephone unless a removal
notice has been posted on the telephone pursuant to this section.

   (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the
commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection may issue a
revocable certificate of registration jointly authorizing the owner of
real property on which a telephone is to be located and a
telecommunications company that will operate the telephone, subject to
the conditions of this section, the installation or maintenance of a
telephone booth, mounted telephone, or other form of pay telephone not
enclosed within the interior of a building and not on the public way,
but permitted by this subsection (c). The certification of registration
shall create no legal rights or entitlements, and shall not be deemed to
create any type of vested interest. The application for the certificate
of registration shall designate a registered agent for receiving notices
under this section. Applications shall be maintained by the city as
confidential business records. The certification shall be issued no
later than 30 days after a complete application for an eligible location
is received. No certificate of registration shall authorize installation
of a telephone at a location that the commissioner determines will not
be in the public interest or may have a deleterious impact on the
surrounding neighborhood. The commissioner of business affairs and
consumer protection may issue a certificate of registration pursuant to
this section for no more than two telephones on any zoning lot of
property; provided that the number of telephones authorized under this
section for any parking lot with 200 or more parking spaces, or for any
property on which there are facilities designed for public assembly and
having a capacity for more than 10,000 persons, shall not exceed a
number determined by the commissioner by rule as necessary for public
convenience. No certificate of registration shall authorize a telephone
situated: (i) on vacant property; (ii) on property on which there is
situated an abandoned building; (iii) on property on which there is
situated an establishment that has or requires a tavern license, or that
is kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a
place that primarily sells alcoholic liquor at retail; or (iv) on
property on which there is a building that is used primarily for
residential purposes. Certificates of registration shall be issued for
particular locations identified in the application therefor. The
commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection by rule may
establish and impose an application fee or an annual registration fee,
or both, for certificates of registration issued under this section. The
total amount of the fees may not exceed an amount sufficient for the
city to recover its costs in administering this section, exclusive of
costs directly related to preliminary or final hearings. A copy of each
application for a certificate of registration shall be sent to the
alderman for the ward in which the proposed telephone is to be located
not less than five days after the application is received.

   (d)   Whenever the commissioner of business affairs and consumer
protection determines that it is not in the public interest for the
telephone to remain on private property, or that the telephone may have
a deleterious impact on the surrounding neighborhood, the commissioner
shall initiate procedures to revoke the certificate of registration for
that telephone. A certification by the alderman of the ward in which the
telephone is or is to be located setting forth facts establishing that
it is not in the public interest for the telephone to remain on private
property, or that the telephone has a deleterious impact on the
surrounding neighborhood, shall be prima facie evidence that the
certificate of registration is subject to revocation or should not be
issued under this section. Whenever the commissioner makes such a
determination with respect to a telephone for which a certificate of
registration has been issued, the commissioner shall attempt to notify
the registrant of the determination by mailing a notice to the
registered agent or the registrant, and a representative of the City of
Chicago may enter upon any private property and may place upon the
telephone a notice stating that the certificate of registration is
subject to revocation and that the registrant has a right to request a
preliminary hearing at which the registrant will be given an opportunity
to be heard in opposition to the revocation within seven days of the
notice. The preliminary hearing shall be informal and shall provide the
registrant with an opportunity to address the reasons for the
commissioner's preliminary determination. If no preliminary hearing is
requested or if the commissioner determines that there is probable cause
for revocation of the certificate of registration after the preliminary
hearing, the commissioner shall issue an order requiring the telephone
and its appurtenances to be removed within seven days after the order is
issued pending a final determination. Telephones that are not timely
removed may be removed by a representative of the City of Chicago. No
certificate of registration may be issued for a telephone at a zoning
lot with respect to which a previous certificate has been revoked for a
period of one year after revocation.

   (e)   Outdoor pay telephones not lawfully installed or maintained
pursuant to this Code are hereby declared to be public nuisances subject
to summary abatement upon due notice. A representative of the City of
Chicago may enter upon any private property within the City of Chicago
that he or she has reason to believe contains an outdoor pay telephone
in violation of this section, and may place upon the telephone a notice
that the telephone must be removed within seven days. Such notice shall
also provide that if the telephone is not removed within seven days, a
representative of the City of Chicago may remove the telephone and
charge the costs of removal jointly and severally to its owner,
operator, and the person who owns or controls the real property on which
the pay telephone is located. If such telephone has not been removed
within seven days, a representative of the City of Chicago may remove
the telephone.

   (f)   If the costs to the City of Chicago of removing telephones and
their appurtenances pursuant to this section are not paid within 30
days, the telephone shall be deemed abandoned and may be sold or
destroyed. The costs of removing outdoor pay telephones shall be a debt
to the City of Chicago jointly and severally owed by the telephone's
owner and operator, and any person who owns or controls the real
property on which the telephone was located.

(Added Coun. J. 10-5-94, p. 57792; Amend Coun. J. 7-10-96, p. 24982;
Amend Coun. J. 11-12-97, p. 56814; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564;
Amend Coun. J. 7-27-05, p. 53211, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. I, § 6)

8-4-055 Sound-emitting devices on public conveyances.

   It is unlawful for any person to make use of any portable
entertainment appliance, radio, used exclusively for entertainment, or
musical instrument (and other sound-emitting devices), which are audible
to others, in any streetcar, elevated train or subway and in any other
public conveyance having a capacity of more than seven passengers
operating within the city limits of the City of Chicago. Any person
violating this section shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than
$300.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-7.11)

8-4-056 False burglar alarms.

   (a)   As used in this section:

      (1)   "Burglar alarm system" means any assembly of equipment,
mechanical or electrical, designed to signal the occurrence of an
illegal entry or attempted illegal entry of the premises protected by
the system. However, "burglar alarm system" shall not include any system
installed to protect any premises used primarily for residential,
educational, religious or charitable purposes or used primarily by a
unit of government or school district.

      (2)   "Burglar alarm user" means the person or entity that owns,
leases or subscribes to a burglar system, but does not include a private
alarm company. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a person who
owns or occupies any premises on which a burglar alarm system has been
installed is the user of that system.

      (3)   "False alarm" means a burglar alarm system activated in the
absence of an emergency whether wilfully or by inadvertence, negligence
or unintentional act, including any mechanical or electrical malfunction
of the alarm system, to which the department of police is alerted for a
response. A false alarm shall not include an alarm activated by a
temporary surge or loss of electrical power or loss of telephone service
to the burglar alarm user; the testing or repairing of telephone or
electrical lines or equipment outside the premises if prior notice of
the testing or repair is given to the department of police; unusually
violent conditions of nature; an illegal entry, theft or robbery, or an
attempt thereof; or an observable act of vandalism; where evidence of
such activity exists.

   (b)   No burglar alarm user shall use a burglar alarm system that
emits a false alarm. Any burglar alarm user accused of violating this
section may raise as an affirmative defense that the burglar alarm user
has taken all reasonable measures to eliminate false alarms. Those
reasonable measures must include all of the following:

      (1)   Using a burglar alarm system that is installed and
maintained by a properly licensed private alarm contractor.

      (2)   Having documentary evidence that the alarm system was
installed, inspected or tested by a properly licensed private alarm
contractor within the previous 12 months.

      (3)   Making every reasonable effort to have a responsible person
arrive at the protected premises within 45 minutes if requested by the
Department of Police or Office of Emergency Management and
Communications, in order to:

         (i)   deactivate the alarm system;

         (ii)   provide access to the alarm location; or

         (iii)   provide alternative security for the alarm location.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of $100 for each false alarm. A notice of violation of this section and
a notice of hearing may be served on the burglar alarm user in the
manner provided in Section 2-14-074 of this Code, or by affixing the
notice to the door or other prominent location on the premises.

(Added Coun. J. 11-19-08, p. 47220, Art. III, § 1)

8-4-058 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 2-16-00, p. 25583, § 1, repealed § 8-4-058,
which pertained to electronic paging devices on school property.

8-4-059 Possession of scanners illegal.

   (a)   Whenever used in this section, the word "scanner" means a radio
set or apparatus (1) capable of receiving, transmitting, or both
receiving and transmitting radio messages or signals within the
wavelength or channel now or hereafter assigned by the Federal
Communications Commission or its successor for use by law enforcement
agencies; or (2) that may intercept or interfere with the transmission
or reception of radio messages or signals by the department of police.

   (b)   No person shall use a scanner in such a way as to interfere
with messages transmitted or received by the department of police. No
person shall use a scanner to aid or abet the performance of any act in
violation of any law or ordinance. The use of a scanner to aid or abet
any illegal act shall be an offense separate and distinct from such
illegal act.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $200.00 and not more than $500.00.

(Added Coun. J. 7-14-93, p. 35538)

8-4-060 Vandalism defined.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit vandalism. A person
commits vandalism when such person, without proper authorization,
engages in the willful or malicious destruction, injury, disfigurement
or defacement of any public or private property. Vandalism includes, but
is not limited to, any act of cutting, tearing, breaking, marking,
drawing, painting or etching when such act is intended to damage
property or has the effect of causing damage to property.

   Any person who violates this section, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $1,500.00 nor more than $2.500.00
for each offense, plus the actual costs incurred by the property owner
or the city to abate, remediate, repair or remove the effects of the
vandalism. To the extent permitted by law, such costs shall be payable
to the person who incurred the costs. In addition to such fine and
costs, any such offense may also be punished as a misdemeanor by
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
term of up to 30 days, or by a requirement to perform up to 1,500 hours
of community service, under the procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1
of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and in the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, as amended. All actions seeking the
imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions
subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, as
amended.

(Prior code § 193-1.5; Amend Coun. J. 10-6-86, p. 34526; Amend Coun. J.
5-16-90, p. 15806; Amend Coun. J. 6-12-91, p. 1718; Amend Coun. J.
5-19-93, p. 32392; Amend Coun. J. 5-20-98, p. 69305; Amend Coun. J.
5-11-05, p. 48079, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 7-30-14, p. 85776, § 1)

8-4-061 Disposition of certain fines.

   In all instances in which the fine set forth in Section 8-4-060 of
the code is imposed by the city's department of administrative hearings
for destruction, injury, disfigurement or other defacement of Chicago
Transit Authority property, one-half of any such fine imposed and
collected shall be made available to the Chicago Transit Authority for
use in removing graffiti and other defacement of Chicago Transit
Authority property.

(Added Coun. J. 7-29-98, p. 74138)

8-4-065 Interference with utility equipment.

   (a)   When used in this section, "utility equipment" means any of the
following located in a public way: (1) any lid, grate, screen or cover
that allows access to any sewer, drain, electrical vault, coal hole,
water vault, gas vault, tunnel or other opening or structure in the
public way, or that allows the flow of water from the public way into a
drain or sewer; (2) any light pole, lamp post, telephone or telegraph
pole, or post or pole supporting electrical transformers or lines for
transmission of electricity or cable television signals. "Utility
equipment" may be either privately or publicly owned.

   (b)   No person shall:

      (1)   Intentionally and without authorization of the owner, remove
utility equipment or damage or alter utility equipment so as to diminish
its effectiveness or to create a public safety hazard;

      (2)   Without authorization of the actual owner, purchase, receive
or possess illegally removed utility equipment. It is a defense to a
prosecution under this subsection (b)(2) that the person charged with a
violation did not know that the subject utility equipment was illegally
removed;

      (3)   Assist any other person in any action prohibited in
subsection (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

   (c)   Any person who violates any provision of subsection (b) of this
section shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
$1,000.00. Any such offense may also be punished as a misdemeanor by
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
term of up to six months or by a requirement to perform up to 1,000
hours of community service under the procedures set forth in Section
1-2-1.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and in the Illinois
Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended, in a separate proceeding. All
actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as
quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of
Civil Procedure, as amended.

(Added Coun. J. 4-22-93, p. 31576; Amend Coun. J. 4-12-00, p. 29744, §
1)

8-4-070 Responsibility of parent or legal guardian.

   (a)   As used in this section, the terms specified have the meanings
ascribed to them:

   "Legal Guardian" means:

      (i)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor, or

      (ii)    A public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by a court.

   "Minor" means a person who is 11 years of age or above, but not yet
17 years of age.

   (b)   If a minor engages in conduct that violates any provision of
Sections 8-4-060 or 8-4-065, and such minor is unemancipated and resides
with his parent or legal guardian, such parent or legal guardian shall
be subject to the penalties set forth below:

      (i)   a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $1.000.00 or
payment of restitution in the amount of the actual costs incurred to
abate, remediate, repair or remove the effects of the vandalism if such
action is performed by the city, whichever is greater, or

      (ii)   a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $1.000.00 and
payment of restitution in the amount of the actual costs incurred by the
property owner to abate, remediate, repair or remove the effects of the
vandalism if such action is not performed by the city.

   Provided, however, that no order imposing a fine and/or restitution
under this section shall exceed $3,000 in the aggregate. Community
service may be imposed in lieu of, or in addition to, the monetary fines
provided by this section. Such parent or legal guardian shall be
strictly liable under this section regardless of whether the parent or
legal guardian has actual knowledge of the minor's unlawful conduct.

(Prior code § 193-1.6; Amend Coun. J. 5-16-90, p. 15806; Amend Coun. J.
4-22-93, p. 31576; Amend Coun. J. 7-19-07, p. 4733, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
7-30-14, p. 85776, § 2)

8-4-075 Threatening a community policing volunteer.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly deliver or convey to a
community policing volunteer, in person, by mail, by telephone or in any
other manner, a threat to inflict bodily harm upon the community
policing volunteer or a member of his or her immediate family (1) with
the intent to cause the community policing volunteer to perform or omit
the performance of any act as a community policing volunteer; or (2) in
retaliation for the community policing volunteer performing or omitting
any act as a community policing volunteer.

   (b)   For purposes of this section, "community policing volunteer"
means a person performing any work or duties that are prescribed by,
guided by, or directed by members of the Chicago Police Department as
part of Chicago's Alternative Policing Strategy (C.A.P.S.).

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be fined $200.00 and
incarcerated up to 30 days for a first offense; fined $400.00 and
incarcerated up to 90 days for a second offense; and fined $500.00 and
incarcerated up to six months for a third or subsequent offense. Any
person violating this provision shall also be required to perform 200
hours of community service. If supervision or probation is imposed,
service of the aforementioned community service shall be a condition of
supervision or probation.

(Added Coun. J. 4-1-98, p. 65276)

8-4-076 Assault against emergency workers.

   (a)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:

   "Battery" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section 12-3 of the
Illinois Criminal Code, codified at 720 ILCS 5/12-3.

   "Covered person" means any peace officer, fireman, emergency
management worker or emergency medical services personnel.

   "Emergency management worker" means:

      (1)   any person, paid or unpaid, who is a member of a local or
county emergency services and disaster agency as defined by the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act, codified at 20 ILCS 3305/1, et seq., or
who is an employee of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency; or

      (2)   any employee or volunteer of the American Red Cross; or

      (3)   any employee of a federal, State, county, or local
government agency assisting an emergency services and disaster agency,
the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency through mutual aid or as otherwise requested or
directed in time of disaster or emergency; or

      (4)   any person volunteering or directed to assist an emergency
services and disaster agency, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency,
or the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

   "Emergency medical services personnel" means any person licensed as
an Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) (First Responder), Emergency
Medical Dispatcher (EMD), Emergency Medical Technician (EMT), Emergency
Medical Technician-Intermediate (EMT-I), Advanced Emergency Medical
Technician (A-EMT), Paramedic (EMT-P), Emergency Communications
Registered Nurse (ECRN), Pre-Hospital Registered Nurse (PHRN),
Pre-Hospital Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (PHAPRN), or
Pre-Hospital Physician Assistant (PHPA).

   "Fireman" means any person who was, is, or shall be employed by a
unit of local government in its fire service as a fireman, fire
paramedic, fire engineer, marine engineer, or fire pilot, and whose duty
is to participate in the work of controlling and extinguishing fire at
the location of any such fire, whether or not such person is assigned to
fire service other than the actual extinguishing of fire.

   "Peace officer" means any person who by virtue of the person's office
or public employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public
order or to make arrests for offenses, whether that duty extends to all
offenses or is limited to specific offenses.

   (b)   There is hereby created the offense of assault against a
covered person. A person commits assault against a covered person when
such person engages in conduct in the City which places a covered person
in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. Any person who
violates this section shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000, or be incarcerated for not less than 90 days nor more than 180
days, or both.

(Added Coun. J. 2-1-23, p. 60491, § 2)

8-4-077 Assault against City employees, officials, and contractors with
enforcement authority.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:

   “Battery” has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section 12-3 of the
Illinois Criminal Code, codified at 720 ILCS 5/12-3.

   “Covered person” means any City employee official, or contractor with
enforcement authority, excluding any peace officer as defined in Section
8-4-076.

   “Enforcement authority” means the authority to investigate violations
of, or to issue tickets, citations, notices of violation for, or to
otherwise enforce, any provision of this Code.

   (b)   There is hereby created the offense of assault against a
covered person. A person commits assault against a covered person when
such person engages in conduct in the City which places a covered person
in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery: (1) with the intent
to cause the covered person to exercise enforcement authority or to
prevent the covered person from exercising enforcement authority; or (2)
in retaliation for the covered person exercising or not exercising
enforcement authority. Any person who violates this section shall be
fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, or be incarcerated for
not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days, or both.

(Added Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 7173, § 1)

8-4-080 Definitions – Assault defined – Mandatory sentence.

   (1)   Definitions. The following definitions are applicable strictly
in the context of this ordinance:

      (A)   "Elderly" refers to any person 60 years of age or older.

      (B)   "Developmentally disabled" means as defined in Illinois
Revised Statutes Chapter 91-1/2, Section 1-106.

      (C)   "Handicapped" means as defined in Illinois Revised Statutes
Chapter 68, Section 1-103(l).

      (D)   "Battery" means as defined in Illinois Revised Statutes
Chapter 38-12-3.

   (2)   There is hereby created the offense of assault against the
elderly, developmentally disabled, or handicapped. A person commits
assault against the elderly, developmentally disabled, or handicapped
when he engages in conduct which places a person as defined above in
reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. Upon conviction of this
offense, a mandatory sentence of imprisonment shall be imposed, not to
be less than 90 days nor more than 180 days.

(Prior code § 193-1.7; Added Coun. J. 4-13-84, p. 6076)

8-4-081 Public urination or defecation.

   (a)   No person shall urinate or defecate on the public way, or on
any outdoor public property, or on any outdoor private property. Except
as otherwise provided in subsection (b), any person who violates this
section shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00, or
shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five days nor more
than ten days or by both such fine and imprisonment.

   (b)   Any person who violates this section while within 800 feet of a
parade route which is not open to traffic shall be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 or shall be punished by imprisonment for
not less than five days nor more than ten days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. For purposes of this section, the term "parade" has the
meaning ascribed to the term in Section 10-8-330 of this Code.

   (c)   This ordinance shall not apply to use of a temporary or
permanent structure or enclosure erected outdoors for use as a toilet
facility.

(Added Coun. J. 7-31-02, p. 91449, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 2-13-13, p.
46841, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-8-13, p. 52958, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
12-11-13, p. 71166, § 1)

8-4-084 Bullying and harassment.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:

   "Bullying" is a form of harassment and is defined as an intentional
act that causes harm to others that may involve verbal harassment,
verbal or non-verbal threats, physical assault, stalking, or other
methods of coercion which is reasonably likely to intimidate,
emotionally abuse, slander, threaten or intimidate another person.

   "Harassment" means an unwanted and hurtful action which can include
unwelcome conduct such as verbal abuse, graphic or written statements,
threats, physical assault, sexual advances, request for sexual favors,
conduct of a sexual nature or other conduct that is threatening or
humiliating related to the person's race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, age, disability, or national origin.

   (b)   Prohibition. No person shall engage in any bullying or
harassment of a person or induce another person to engage in such
bullying or harassment.

   (c)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than $100 but not more than $250 for a
first offense. Any subsequent violation shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $250 but not more than $500.

(Added Coun. J. 11-8-17, p. 58452, § 1)

8-4-085 Hate crimes.

   (a)   No person shall, by reason of any motive or intent relating to,
or any antipathy, animosity or hostility based upon, the actual or
perceived race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, ancestry,
sexual orientation, gender identity, active or prior military status, or
mental or physical disability of another individual or group of
individuals:

      (1)   Commit assault as defined in Section 12-1 of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961 (Illinois Revised Statutes Chapter 38, paragraph
12-1); or

      (2)   Deface, mar, injure, destroy or remove property in violation
of Section 8-4-040 of this Code; or

      (3)   Commit trespass as defined in Section 8-4-050 of this Code;
or

      (4)   Commit vandalism as defined in Section 8-4-060 of this Code;
or

      (5)   Disturb a place of worship in violation of Section 8-4-110
of this Code; or

      (6)   Engage in harassment by telephone as defined in Section 1-1
of "An Act to prohibit the use of telephone and telegraph lines for the
sending of certain messages" (Illinois Revised Statutes Chapter 134,
paragraph 16-4.1).

   (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of $500.00 or may be imprisoned for not more than six months, or may be
subject to both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such penalty,
any person found guilty of violating this section may be ordered to pay
restitution to the aggrieved party, and may be ordered to perform
community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this Code.

   (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any
conduct in violation of this section that is punishable under state or
federal law by a term of imprisonment in excess of six months shall not
be prosecuted under this section.

   (d)   As used in this section, "sexual orientation" means a person's
actual or perceived sexual and emotional attraction, or lack thereof, to
another person.

   (e)   As used in this section, "active or prior military status"
means any active duty or former military service personnel of the United
States Armed Services, including the Reserves, National Guard and the
Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC).

(Added Coun. J. 12-19-90, p. 27888; Amend Coun. J. 11-18-15, p. 14409, §
3; Amend Coun. J. 4-21-21, p. 29725, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 4-27-22, p.
46382, § 24)

8-4-086 Prohibition against racial profiling.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:

   "Peace officer" shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in
Section 8-20-010 of this Code.

   "Security personnel" means special agents employed by a railroad or
public utility to perform police functions, guards of armored car
companies, watchmen, security guards or persons regularly employed in a
commercial or industrial operation for the protection of persons
employed by, or property related to, such commercial or industrial
operation, and watchmen while in the performance of the duties of their
employment.

   (b)   No member of the Chicago Police Department, peace officer or
security personnel employed or engaged in his or her duties within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Chicago shall use actual or
perceived race, ethnicity, gender, religion, national origin,
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status,
parental status, military discharge status, financial status or lawful
source of income as the sole factor in determining the existence of
probable cause to stop, question, place in custody or arrest an
individual or in constituting a reasonable and articulable suspicion
that an offense has been or is being committed so as to justify the
detention of an individual or the investigatory stop of a motor vehicle.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-01, p. 60144, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 1-21-15, p.
102425, § 2)

8-4-087 Chronic illegal activity premises.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, unless the context
indicates otherwise:

   "Chronic illegal activity premises" means any premises that is the
subject matter of three or more calls for police service on three
different days within any 90-day period resulting in (1) a case report
documenting an investigation of illegal activity within the premises; or
(2) enforcement action against any tenant or person associated with the
premises for illegal activity occurring within the premises or within
one block or one thousand feet of the premises. Provided, however, that
the following shall not be counted when determining whether a premises
meets the definition of a chronic illegal activity premises:

      (1)   any illegal activity reported to the police department by
the building owner or the building owner's agent via the city's 9-1-1
emergency telephone system;

      (2)   incidents of domestic violence, as defined in the Illinois
Domestic Violence Act of 1986, as amended;

      (3)   any contact made to the police or other emergency services
with the intent of preventing domestic or sexual violence, or seeking an
emergency response to domestic or sexual violence;

      (4)   any contact made to police or other emergency services by,
on behalf of, or otherwise concerning an individual with a disability,
where the purpose of that contact is related to that individual's
disability;

      (5)   any incident of actual or threatened domestic or sexual
violence against a tenant, a household member, a guest or any other
party that occurs in or on the premises of a residential dwelling unit;

      (6)   criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring
in or on the premises of a residential dwelling unit that is directly
relating to domestic violence or sexual violence and is reported by the
victim or a party seeking services or assistance for the victim.

   "Corporation counsel" means the corporation counsel of the City of
Chicago or the corporation counsel's designee.

   "Enforcement action" means (1) the physical arrest of an individual;
or (2) the issuance of a citation for a violation of law; or (3) a
referral of charges by the police to the corporation counsel or other
appropriate authority for prosecution.

   "Executive director" means the executive director of emergency
management and communications or the executive director's designee.

   "Illegal activity" means any of the following activities, behaviors
or conduct:

      1.   Disorderly conduct within the meaning of Section 8-4-010 or
any comparable federal, state or local law;

      2.   Gang loitering within the meaning of Section 8-4-015 or any
comparable federal, state or local law;

      3.   Narcotics-related loitering within the meaning of Section
8-4-017 or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      4.   Threats or intimidation in public places within the meaning
of Section 8-4-026 or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      5.   Drinking in the public way within the meaning of Section
8-4-030 or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      6.   Trespassing within the meaning of Section 8-4-050 or any
comparable federal, state or local law;

      7.   Vandalism within the meaning of Section 8-4-060 or any
comparable federal, state or local law;

      8.   Public urination or defecation within the meaning of Section
8-4-081 or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      9.   Prostitution within the meaning of the Illinois Criminal
Code, as amended, or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      10.   Street solicitation for prostitution in violation of Section
8-8-060 or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      11.   Illegal gambling within the meaning of Chapter 8-12 of the
Municipal Code of Chicago or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      12.   Illegal possession, delivery of or trafficking in controlled
substances in violation of the Controlled Substances Act, as amended, or
any comparable federal, state or local law;

      13.   Any violation of the Cannabis Control Act, as amended, or
any comparable federal, state or local law;

      14.   Firearms, weapons or related offenses in violation of any
provision of Chapter 8-20 or Chapter 8-24 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      15.   Excessive noise or vibration in violation of any provision
of the Chicago Noise Ordinance, Chapter 8-32 of the Municipal Code of
Chicago or any comparable federal, state or local law;

      16.   Any activity, behavior or conduct that constitutes a public
nuisance under any provision of the Municipal Code of Chicago or any
federal, state or local law;

      17.   Any offense set forth in the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961,
as amended, or in Chapter 720 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as
amended; and

      18.   The presence of debris, litter, garbage, rubble, abandoned
or junk vehicles or junk appliances in violation of the applicable
provisions of the Municipal Code of Chicago or any comparable federal,
state or local law.

   "Owner" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Chapter 14A-2.

   "Person associated with the premises" means any person who engages in
any illegal activity while on the premises or within a reasonable period
of time before or after entering, attempting to enter, intending to
enter or leaving the premises.

   "Premises" means any building, real estate or real property. The term
"premises" includes all facilities and appurtenances within a building
and all grounds, areas and facilities held out for use by the occupants
of a building.

   "Resolution agreement" means an agreement between the owner of a
chronic illegal activity premises and the city setting forth specific
measures that the owner or manager of the premises shall be required to
take by a date certain to abate a nuisance under this section.

   "Superintendent" means the superintendent of the department of police
or the superintendent's designee.

   "Tenant" means any person entitled, by written or oral agreement or
by a subtenancy approved by a landlord or by sufferance, to occupy a
dwelling unit or other space within a building to the exclusion of
others.

   (b)   Chronic illegal activity – Public nuisance declared. Any
premises that is a chronic illegal activity premises is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance. Such public nuisance shall be subject to
abatement in accordance with the requirements of this section. It shall
be unlawful for any person (1) to maintain a public nuisance under this
section or to cause such a public nuisance to be maintained on any
premises under such person's ownership or control; or (2) to fail to
comply with the terms of any resolution agreement or order of abatement
issued under this section.

   (c)   (1)   Procedures. If the executive director or superintendent
determines that a premises meets the definition of a chronic illegal
activity premises and is a nuisance under this section, the executive
director or superintendent, as applicable, shall notify the owner of the
premises and the corporation counsel in writing of such determination,
and shall provide the owner with an opportunity to meet with appropriate
city officials, which may include the corporation counsel, (a) to
discuss the allegations contained in the notice and the need for
nuisance abatement at the premises; and (b) to enter into a possible
resolution agreement with the city to abate the nuisance activity at the
premises identified in the notice. In addition, a courtesy copy of such
notice shall be provided to the alderman of the ward in which the
premises is located. The notice required under this subsection (c)(1)
shall be served upon such owner (i) by first class mail or express mail
or by overnight carrier at the owner's last known residence address or,
if the owner is a business entity, at any address identified for its
registered agent or at its principal place of business; or (ii) by
personal service to the owner, including personal service upon an
employee or agent of the owner at the premises identified in the notice
or otherwise if such service is reasonably calculated to give the owner
actual notice; or (iii) if such service cannot be made by either of (i)
or (ii) above, by posting a copy of the notice on the front entrance of
the building or other structure meeting the definition of a chronic
illegal activity premises or, if there is no front entrance, in any
other conspicuous place on the premises. Such notice shall contain the
following information:

         (A)   a statement that the premises identified in the notice
has been determined to be a chronic illegal activity premises and
nuisance under this section;

         (B)   a street address, parcel number or legal description
sufficient to identify the premises;

         (C)   a description of the illegal activities supporting the
determination that the premises is a nuisance under this section, and
the date on which the illegal activities comprising the nuisance
occurred;

         (D)   the owner's opportunity to request in writing, by the
date certain set forth in such notice or by any other agreed upon date,
a meeting with appropriate city officials, which may include the
corporation counsel, to discuss the allegations contained in the notice
and the need for abatement measures at the premises. At such meeting(s),
the owner may enter into a possible resolution agreement with the city
to abate the nuisance activity at the premises identified in the notice;

         (E)   the owner's attorney is allowed to attend such
meeting(s);

         (F)   the name and address of the city official to whom a
written request for such meeting should be sent and the date certain by
which such written request must be received by such city official;

         (G)   if the owner fails to meet with appropriate city
officials in a timely manner or fails to enter into a resolution
agreement with the city or otherwise fails to abate the nuisance under
this section, the corporation counsel or other appropriate city official
may institute an appropriate action in the department of administrative
hearings or in a court of competent jurisdiction to abate such nuisance;
and

         (H)   upon a finding of liability in the department of
administrative hearings or in a court of competent jurisdiction, the
penalties which shall attach for a violation of this ordinance,
including, but not limited to, fines and liability to the city for any
and all costs incurred by the city or its agents for police service,
emergency service or any other city service reasonably related to such
violation of this ordinance.

      (2)   If, after the requirements set forth in paragraph (1) of
this subsection (c) have been met, the corporation counsel or any other
appropriate city official determines that it is necessary or desirable
to bring an action in the department of administrative hearings or in a
court of competent jurisdiction to abate a nuisance under this section,
written notice of such action shall be provided to the owner as required
by law. If such action is brought in the department of administrative
hearings, any evidence on which a reasonably prudent person would rely
may be considered without regard to the formal or technical rules of
evidence, and the presiding authority may rely on written official
reports, affidavits and other business records submitted by police
officers or other authorized city officials or city employees to
determine whether a public nuisance under this section occurred. Upon a
finding of liability under this section, the presiding authority shall
issue an order of abatement directing the owner to implement a nuisance
abatement plan at the premises. Such nuisance abatement plan shall be in
writing; shall provide reasonable assurance that if the plan is
implemented at the premises, the nuisance at such premises will be
substantially abated or eliminated in its entirety; shall include an
implementation schedule for each element of the plan; and shall contain
the following elements, unless the executive director or superintendent,
as applicable, or the presiding authority determines that such element
is not required to substantially abate or eliminate in its entirety the
nuisance at the premises: (i) installing and maintaining sufficient
lighting at each point of entry to and exit from the premises and in
designated common areas; (ii) installing and maintaining sufficient
surveillance cameras at each point of entry to and exit from the
premises and in designated common areas, illuminated in such a manner so
as to identify persons entering or exiting the premises; (iii)
maintaining the recordings from surveillance cameras for not less than
30 days after such recording occurs; and (iv) hiring sufficient licensed
and insured security personnel to patrol the premises. In addition, such
nuisance abatement plan may be required to include the following
elements: installing metal detectors to screen persons visiting the
premises; requiring persons to produce identification upon entering the
premises; maintaining a registry of all persons entering the premises;
maintaining an internal log or incident reporting system documenting the
owner's response to specific incidents of illegal activity on the
premises; displaying appropriate signage; providing trash pick-up
services; installing soundproofing insulation or taking other steps to
control noise; requiring the building owner, operator or a designated
representative thereof to attend monthly CAPS meetings; and other
reasonable and warranted measures to abate the nuisance at the premises.

   (d)   Penalties for violation – Cost recovery authorized. Upon a
finding of liability in the department of administrative hearings or in
a court of competent jurisdiction any person who violates subsection (b)
of this section shall be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than
$1,000.00 for each offense. Any person who violates any provision of
this section other than subsection (b), including, but not limited to,
any violation of any provision of a resolution agreement or order of
abatement, shall be fined not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00
for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense to which a separate fine shall apply. In
addition to any fine or other penalty provided by law, and pursuant to
the requirements of Chapter 1-20 of this Code, any person who violates
any provision of this section, including, but not limited to, any
violation of any provision of a resolution agreement or order of
abatement, shall be liable to the city for any and all costs incurred by
the city or its agents for police service, emergency service or any
other city service reasonably related to such person's violation of any
provision of this section.

   (e)   Construction of section. Nothing in this section shall be
construed (1) to constitute an act of possession, ownership or control
by the city over the applicable premises; or (2) to deny common law
right to anyone to abate a nuisance at such premises; or (3) to affect
the status of any ongoing city prosecution or other action related to
such premises; or (4) to prevent the issuance of a citation to or arrest
or prosecution of any person for any violation of the Municipal Code of
Chicago or other applicable law at such premises; or (5) to permit at
such premises any activity prohibited by law.

   (f)   Regulations. The executive director and superintendent shall
have joint authority to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to
implement the requirements of this section.

(Added Coun. J. 10-6-10, p. 102588, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
13798, Art. II, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 156; Amend
Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 73451, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-18, p. 90308, Art.
V, § 8; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 92)

8-4-090 Drug and gang houses, houses of prostitution and other
disorderly houses.

   (a)   Any premises used for prostitution, illegal gambling, illegal
possession or delivery of or trafficking in controlled substances, or
any other activity that constitutes a felony, misdemeanor, business
offense or petty offense under federal, state or municipal law is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance; provided that no public nuisance or
violation of this section shall be deemed to exist unless: (1) the
property is used for more than one such offense within any six-month
period; or (2) the offense for which the property is used is punishable
by imprisonment for one year or more.

   (a-5)   The following shall not provide, in whole or in part, a basis
for a declaration under this section that a property is a public
nuisance:

      (1)   any contact made to the police or other emergency services
with the intent of preventing domestic or sexual violence, or seeking an
emergency response to domestic or sexual violence;

      (2)   any contact made to police or other emergency services by,
on behalf of, or otherwise concerning an individual with a disability,
where the purpose of that contact is related to that individual's
disability;

      (3)   any incident of actual or threatened domestic or sexual
violence against a tenant, a household member, a guest, or any other
party that occurs in or on the premises of a dwelling unit;

      (4)   criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring
in or on the premises of a dwelling unit that is directly relating to
domestic violence or sexual violence and is reported by the victim or a
party seeking services or assistance for the victim and where the
perpetrator is not related to or located at the property.

   (b)   Any person who owns, manages or controls any premises and who:
(1) encourages or permits an illegal activity described in subsection
(a) that is not subject to an exception described in subsection (a-5) to
occur or continue on such premises; or (2) fails to implement reasonable
and warranted abatement measures identified in the notice issued
pursuant to subsection (e), or subsequently agreed to, or other
abatement measures which successfully abate the nuisance within the
30-day period following the notice, or within any other agreed upon
period, shall be subject to a fine according to the schedule set forth
in subsection (c). Each day that a violation of this section continues
shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. No person shall be
found in violation of (b)(2) of this section unless the city proves by a
preponderance of the evidence that the abatement measures were
reasonable and warranted, and that the defendant knowingly failed to
implement them. A person may be found in violation of (b)(1) or (b)(2)
of this section regardless of whether an order of abatement is issued
under subsection (d), or in violation of (b)(1) regardless of whether a
notice has been given under subsection (e). A fine in accordance with
subsection (c) may be assessed in a court of competent jurisdiction or
in the buildings hearings division of the department of administrative
hearings.

   (c)   Upon a finding of liability under this ordinance, the defendant
shall be fined (1) not less than $3,000.00 nor more than $6,000.00 for
any offense defined as a Class X felony by the Criminal Code of 1961,
720 ILCS 5, as amended (for purposes of this section, "Criminal Code");
(2) not less than $1,500.00 nor more than $3,000.00 for any offense
defined as a Class 1 felony by the Criminal Code; (3) not less than
$700.00 nor more than $1,400.00 for any offense defined as a Class 2
felony by the Criminal Code; (4) not less than $500.00 nor more than
$1,000.00 for any offense defined as a Class 3 felony by the Criminal
Code; (5) not less than $300.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for any offense
defined as a Class 4 felony by the Criminal Code; and (6) not less than
$200.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for all offenses not otherwise
specified.

   (d)   The commissioner of buildings or other authorized
representative of the city may bring an action to abate a public
nuisance described by this section in a court of competent jurisdiction
or in the buildings hearings division of the department of
administrative hearings. The presiding authority shall issue an order of
abatement upon a finding of liability under this section. The order of
abatement shall require the defendant to take measures reasonably
calculated to prevent the recurrence of the illegal activity. In
ordering these measures, the presiding authority shall consider the
magnitude of the harm caused by the nuisance, the value of the property,
and the extent to which the defendant has failed to take effective
measures to abate the nuisance. Those measures may include, but are not
limited to, making improvements to real estate and installing lighting
to enhance security, the hiring of licensed and insured security
personnel, the hiring of a receiver, the initiation and execution of
eviction proceedings against tenants engaged in illegal activity, or, at
the request of the corporation counsel, the assignment or forfeiture to
the city of all of the defendant's rights, title and interest in the
real estate. Assignment or forfeiture of the defendant's rights, title
and interest in the real estate shall be considered as an abatement
measure only when the defendant has failed to abate a nuisance following
an order issued pursuant to this paragraph, or has failed to abate a
nuisance within 30 days of a notice issued pursuant to paragraph (e) of
this section, and: (i) a forcible felony as defined in Section 2-8 of
the Criminal Code (720 ILCS 5/2-8) is committed on the premises, or (ii)
two or more violations of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the
Cannabis Control Act occur on the property on separate days within a one
year period. The order of abatement may also authorize the issuance of
ex parte administrative search warrants reasonably calculated to
determine whether the nuisance has been abated or whether the order of
the court or hearing officer has been obeyed. Any order of abatement
issued by an administrative law officer under this ordinance is subject
to enforcement pursuant to Section 2-14-100 of this Code. Actions
brought pursuant to this section in the Circuit Court of Cook County may
also be accompanied by the recording of a lis pendens notice against the
property.

   (e)   Whenever the commissioner of buildings, the superintendent of
police or other authorized representative of the city reasonably
believes that any premises constitutes a public nuisance as described in
this section, he or she shall give written notice to the person who owns
or controls the premises. Such notice shall include, but not be limited
to, stating that a nuisance exists and identifying reasonable abatement
measures that must be taken within 30 days of the notice. The notice
shall be in writing and may be served in person or sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall provide the recipient a
reasonable opportunity to meet with a representative of the city to
discuss the allegations in the notice and the need for abatement
measures. Failure to implement the abatement measures requested in the
notice, or those subsequently agreed to, within the 30-day period
following the notice, or within any period subsequently agreed upon,
comprises a violation of subsection (b)(ii) of this section.

   (f)   For purposes of this section, "premises" includes any parcel of
property and the building or structure, if any, which is situated on the
property, and any portion of the public way that abuts the parcel of
property when it is used in conjunction with the abutting property for
the commission of illegal activity.

   (g)   Any property assigned or forfeited to the city under this
section may be disposed of as authorized by the city council.

(Added Coun. J. 12-9-92, p. 25986; Amend Coun. J. 7-31-96, p. 27730;
Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564; Amend Coun. J. 8-30-00, p. 40306, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 7-27-05, p. 54342, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 73451,
§ 2)

8-4-091 Prohibited manner of managing or controlling real estate.

   It shall be a violation of this section when any person who, when
having management authority over or control of residential real estate,
whether as a legal or equitable owner or as a managing agent or
otherwise, recklessly permits the physical condition or facilities of
the residential real estate to become or remain in any condition which
endangers the health or safety of any person. Such conduct shall
include, but not be limited to, (a) recklessly allowing property to be
improperly secured, resulting in the commission of a crime against a
resident of the property or against any other person, (b) recklessly
allowing property to collapse or partially collapse, resulting in injury
to a person inside or outside of a building, (c) recklessly allowing
property to remain in violation of applicable building code, fire code,
or other applicable code provisions, (d) recklessly failing to respond
to reasonable requests by the city to repair a property that is in
violation of an applicable provision of the Municipal Code, or (e)
recklessly endangering the health and safety of any person by illegally
altering or modifying a structure to increase the number of dwelling
units or living spaces within the structure, or by allowing any such
alteration or modification to continue or to be used. Any person found
to have violated this section shall be: (a) subject to a fine of not
less than $500.00 for each offense, (b) incarcerated for not more than
180 days, and/or (c) ordered to perform community service for a period
not to exceed 200 hours. A separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day on which such person shall continue any
such violation.

   This section shall not apply to any freestanding, owner-occupied
single-family home or to any owner- occupied townhouse; provided,
however, that this exception shall not apply to a single-family home, or
to a townhouse, which is rented, or to any structure that is altered or
modified in violation of Title 17, Section 11.13-1 (17-44-565)* of the
Municipal Code. For purposes of this section a townhouse shall refer to:
one of a row of houses connected by common side walls.

(Added Coun. J. 2-8-95, p. 65368; Amend Coun. J. 2-7-96, p. 15460)

* Editor's note – Section no longer exists in the Code.

8-4-100 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-4-100,
which pertained to vagrancy.

8-4-110 Disturbing places of worship.

   Any person who shall disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly
met for religious worship by making a noise, or by rude and indecent
behavior or profane discourse within the place of worship, or so near to
the same as to disturb the order and solemnity of the meeting, shall be
fined not exceeding $50.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-4)

8-4-120 Damage to public property.

   No person shall cut, injure, mark, damage or deface any public
building, sewer, water pipe, or hydrant, or other city property, fixture
or personal property, or any tree, grass, shrub, or walk in any public
way or public park.

   Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-5; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-98, p. 75096; Amend Coun. J.
7-30-14, p. 85776, § 3)

8-4-125 Use of cell phones/cameras/camera phones in public privacy
areas.

   No person shall use a camera/cell phone or other device capable of
preserving and/or transmitting an image in any public "privacy area".
For purposes of this section, "privacy area" shall be defined as rooms
in structures, or other areas whether or not enclosed, designated for
the administration of examinations, clinics, hospitals and areas where a
person should reasonably expect to have privacy, including but not
limited to showers, locker rooms/changing rooms, bathrooms, lactation
rooms, automatic teller machine areas, and cashier lines. Possession of
said devices in these areas is lawful if the image preserving and/or
transmitting portion of the device is not operational.

   Videotaping, photographing and filming by law enforcement officers
pursuant to a lawful criminal investigation is exempt from this section.

   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not
less than $5.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 3-10-04, p. 19865, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 3-31-04, p.
21244, § 1)

8-4-126 Unauthorized video recording and live video transmission –
"Upskirting" and other related offenses.

   (a)   Unlawful act. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
make a video record or transmit live video of another person under or
through the clothing worn by that other person for the purpose of
viewing the body of or the undergarments worn by that person without
that person's consent.

   (b)   Definitions. As used in this section:

      (1)   "Video record" means any videotape, photograph, film, or
other electronic or digital recording of a still or moving visual image;
and

      (2)   "Live video" means any real-time or contemporaneous
electronic or digital transmission of a still or moving visual image.

   (c)   Exemptions. The following activities shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section:

      (1)   The making of a video record or transmission of live video
by law enforcement officers pursuant to a criminal investigation, which
is otherwise lawful; and

      (2)   The making of a video record or transmission of live video
by correctional officials for security reasons or for investigation of
alleged misconduct involving a person committed to the Illinois
Department of Corrections, the Cook County Department of Corrections or
other similar correctional agency.

   (d)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be fined not more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 5-28-14, p. 80908, § 1)

8-4-127 Cyberstalking and cyber-flashing.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply:

      (1)   "Harass" means to engage in a knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific person that alarms, torments or
terrorizes that person.

      (2)   "Electronic communication" means any transfers of signs,
signals, writings, sounds, data or intelligence of any nature
transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic,
photoelectric or photo-optical system.

      (3)   "Electronic communication" includes transmissions by a
computer through the Internet to another computer.

      (4)   "Family or household member" includes spouses, former
spouses, parents, children, stepchildren and other persons related by
blood or by present or prior marriage, persons who shared or formerly
shared a common dwelling, persons who have or allegedly share a blood
relationship through a child, persons who have or have had a dating or
engagement relationship, and persons with disabilities and their
personal assistants. For purposes of this ordinance neither a casual
acquaintanceship nor ordinary fraternization between two individuals in
business or social contexts shall be deemed to constitute a dating
relationship.

      (5)   "Cyber-flashing" means to knowingly and without lawful
justification send an intimate image to another person through the use
of data-dropping technology without the request or express consent of
the person.

      (6)   "Data-dropping technology" means technology that enables the
transfer of files, including, but not limited to, pictures, videos, or
texts, using wireless local area networking devices to cellular
telephone users located within close proximity with the sender. The term
"data-dropping technology" does not include transferring of files
through e-mail, telephone text messaging, or by posting on social media
networks.

      (7)   "Intimate body parts" means the genitals, pubic area or anus
of any individual.

      (8)   "Intimate image" means a photograph, film, videotape,
recording or any other reproduction of an image of an individual with
fully or partially exposed intimate body parts or engaged in sexual
activity.

      (9)   "Sexual activity" means: (i) human genitals in a state of
sexual stimulation or arousal; (ii) acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy; or (iii) fondling or other erotic touching of
intimate body parts.

   (b)   Cyberstalking. No person shall cyberstalk another.
Cyberstalking is an act committed when one knowingly and without lawful
justification, on at least two (2) separate occasions, harasses another
person through the use of electronic communication and:

      (1)   At any time transmits a threat of immediate or future bodily
harm, sexual assault, confinement, or restraint and the threat is
directed towards that person or a family member of that person, or

      (2)   Places that person or a family member of the person in
reasonable apprehension of immediate or future bodily harm, sexual
assault, confinement or restraint.

   (c)   Cyber-flashing. No person shall engage in cyber-flashing.

   (d)   Violation and penalty. Any person who violates this section,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of no more than
$500.00 for the first offense. Subsequent convictions shall be punished
by a fine of no more than $1,000.00. In addition to such fines, any such
offense may also be punished as a misdemeanor by incarceration in a
penal institution other than a penitentiary for a term of up to ninety
(90) days or by a requirement to perform up to 1,500 hours of community
service under the procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and in the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, as amended, in a separate proceeding. All
actions seeking the imposition of fines only shall be filed as
quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the Illinois Code of
Civil Procedure, as amended.

   (e)   Construction. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to
impose liability upon the following entities solely as a result of
content or information provided by another person:

      (1)   an interactive computer service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
230(f)(2);

      (2)   a provider of public mobile services or private radio
services, as defined in Section 13-214 of the Public Utilities Act,
codified at 220 ILCS 5/13-214; or

      (3)   a telecommunications network or broadband provider.

(Added Coun. J. 1-9-08, p. 19685, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 4-22-20, p. 15029,
§ 1)

8-4-130 Possession of etching materials, paint or marker unlawful.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess etching
materials, a spray paint container, liquid paint or any marker
containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a point, brush,
applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths of an inch or
greater, on the property of another or in any public building or upon
any public facility. It shall be a defense to an action for violation of
this subsection that the owner, manager or other person having control
of the property, building or facility consented to the presence of the
etching materials, paint or marker.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a spray paint
container, liquid paint or any marker containing a fluid which is not
water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other writing
surface of three- eighths of an inch or greater, or any etching
equipment or etching materials, on the public way with intent to use the
same to deface any building, structure or property.

   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry,
possess or have any spray paint container, liquid paint or any marker
containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a point, brush,
applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths of an inch or
greater, or any etching equipment or etching materials, in or upon or
about any motor vehicle with intent to use the same to deface any
building, structure or property.

   (d)   For purposes of this code, "etch" means to cut, bite, corrode
or engrave on metal, glass, plastic, concrete or stone, and "etching
equipment" means any tool, device, or equipment used to etch. "Etching
materials" means any acid or like substance used to etch.

   (e)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than $1,500 for
each offense.

(Prior code § 193-5.1; Added Coun. J. 2-11-87, p. 39504; Amend Coun. J.
5-20-92, p. 17016; Amend Coun. J. 2-10-93, p. 28505; Amend Coun.
7-21-99, p. 9095; Amend Coun. J. 5-11-05, p. 48079, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. I, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, §
157; Amend Coun. J. 7-22-20, p. 18957, § 5)

8-4-135 Defacement of commercial vehicles.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate a defaced
commercial vehicle in the City of Chicago, subject to the exceptions
provided in this section. The commissioner of streets and sanitation or
his designee is authorized to take action necessary for effective
enforcement of this section, including the issuance of citations.

   (b)   Any person who owns or operates a defaced commercial vehicle in
the City of Chicago, when such defacement is not placed upon such
vehicle by the owner, lessee, or person lawfully in possession of the
vehicle, or a person acting with the consent of the owner, lessee or
person lawfully in possession, shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor
more than $500.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.

   (c)   For purposes of this section, "commercial vehicle" shall refer
to: (1) a motor vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise
and includes, but is not limited to, tow trucks, semi- trailers and
trailers; and (2) a railroad car or railroad container car that remains
in the City of Chicago for a continuous five-day period or longer;
"defacement" or "defaced" shall refer to any marking or drawing on a
commercial vehicle but does not refer to:

      (1)   Any sign, marking, drawing or communication relating to the
business that owns or operates the vehicle which is placed on the
vehicle with the consent of the person or commercial or industrial
enterprise that owns or operates the vehicle;

      (2)   Any marking that was placed upon the vehicle in the
manufacturing process or as part of any repair or re-painting of the
vehicle;

      (3)   Any form of business identification;

      (4)   Any sign or symbol relating to safety;

      (5)   Any sign, symbol or marking required by federal, state or
local law or regulation;

      (6)   Any sign or symbol relating to hazardous materials or waste;

      (7)   Any sticker or sign affixed by the seller or dealer of a
commercial vehicle; or

      (8)   Any marking or drawing, placed upon a vehicle by the owner
of the vehicle or a person acting with the consent of the owner.

   (d)   It is a rebuttable presumption under this section that any
defacement placed on a commercial vehicle that is not referred to in
those exceptions set forth in subsections (1) through (7) above was
placed on the vehicle by a person other than the owner or operator of
the vehicle.

(Added Coun. J. 12-1-93, p. 43378; Amend Coun. J. 2-16-00, p. 25795, §
1)

8-4-140 Injuring or obstructing signal systems.

   No person, unless duly authorized, shall open any signal box, unless
it be to give an alarm of fire or to communicate with the police on
necessary business, nor break, cut, injure, deface, derange, or in any
manner meddle or interfere with any signal box or the fire-alarm or
police telegraph wires, or with any municipal electric wires, poles,
conduits, or apparatus. Any person violating any of the foregoing
provisions of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more
than $50.00 for each offense.

   Any person who shall scratch, stencil, or post placards or bills on
any of the poles used for wires of the police and fire alarm telegraph,
or in any other manner deface or injure the same, shall be fined not
less than $5.00 nor more than $20.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-6)

8-4-145 False alarms.

   Whoever, without reasonable cause, does any one or more of the
following:

      (i)   by outcry or otherwise, makes or circulates, or causes to be
made or circulated, any false alarm of fire; or

      (ii)   calls the number "911" for the purpose of making or
transmitting a false alarm or complaint and reporting information when,
at the time the call or transmission is made, the person knows that the
call or transmission could result in the emergency response of any city
department or agency; or

      (iii)   calls the number "911" three or more times in a 30-day
period without communicating or attempting to communicate information
concerning an actual or perceived emergency; or

      (iv)   calls the number "911" for the primary purpose of using
threatening, vulgar, indecent or obscene language over the telephone

   shall be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each
offense. In the event that a minor violates this section, the parent or
guardian having legal custody or control of the minor shall be liable
for the violation.

(Prior code § 193-7; Amend Coun. J. 12-15-04, p. 40218, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 4-6-05, p. 45973, § 1)

8-4-147 Unlawful threatening objects.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave unattended on the
public way or in a public place, or on private property except by
consent of the property owner, anywhere within the city, any object that
appears to be a bomb or an improvised explosive device or otherwise pose
an apparently immediate threat to public safety, for example, objects
that are ticking or contain suspicious-looking electronics or wires.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a person or business (1) to knowingly
allow their goods, services or activities to be promoted by the conduct
referred to in subsection (a), or (2) to initiate or direct the conduct
referred to in subsection (a).

   (c)   Any person who has engaged in conduct that potentially
constitutes a violation of either of subsections (a) or (b) and who
becomes aware, or reasonably should be aware based on media coverage,
that public resources are being expended on addressing a public scare
related to such conduct, is required to immediately notify the city by
calling 911. Failure to do so is a separate violation of this ordinance.

   (d)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $1.000.00 for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 3-14-07, p. 99877, § 1)

8-4-148 Sale or possession of body armor.

   (a)   As used in this section:

      (1)   "Body Armor" means any one of the following:

         (i)   A military style flak or tactical assault vest which is
made of Kevlar or any other similar material or metal, fiberglass,
plastic, or nylon plates and designed to be worn over one's clothing for
the intended purpose of stopping not only missile fragmentation from
mines, grenades, mortar shells and artillery fire but also fire from
rifles, machine guns, and small arms.

         (ii)   Soft body armor which is made of Kevlar or any other
similar material or metal or any other type of insert and which is
lightweight and pliable and which can be easily concealed under a shirt.

         (iii)   A military style recon/surveillance vest which is made
of Kevlar or any other similar material and which is lightweight and
designed to be worn over one's clothing.

         (iv)   Protective casual clothing which is made of Kevlar or
any other similar material and which was originally intended to be used
by undercover law enforcement officers or dignitaries and is designed to
look like jackets, coats, raincoats, quilted or three piece suit vests.

         (v)   Body armor does not include non-ballistic protective
clothing or protective gear lined with Kevlar that are manufactured,
advertised, and sold as motorcycle protective clothing.

      (2)   "Emergency Responder" means any police officer, firefighter,
paramedic, or emergency medical technician employed by, or performing
their official duties within, the City of Chicago.

      (3)   "News Media" means any newspaper or other periodical issued
at regular intervals whether in print or electronic format and having a
general circulation; a news service whether in print of electronic
format*; a radio station; a television station; a television network; a
community antenna television service; and any person or corporation
engaged in making news reels or other motion picture news for public
showing.

* Editor’s note – So in original; should likely read "whether in print
or electronic format".

   (b)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, possess, or purchase body
armor.

   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to sales to, or
purchase or possession by:

      (1)   active or retired peace officers;

      (2)   retired police officers;

      (3)   members of the United States armed forces, emergency
responders, or licensed security officers;

      (4)   employees of the City of Chicago, State of Illinois, federal
government, or other unit of local government when such employees are on
duty and acting in their official capacities;

      (5)   employees of the news media when such employees are on duty
and acting in their official capacities;

      (6)   persons authorized and permitted to acquire body armor for
use solely as props for a motion picture, television, or video
production entertainment.

   (d)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00.

   (e)   Violations of this section by a licensee shall be grounds for
revocation or suspension of such license. For purposes of this section,
"license" includes any and all licenses issued by any officer,
department or agency of the City of Chicago required for retail or other
business operations at the location at which the offense occurred, and
includes but is not limited to retail licenses. For purposes of this
section, each sold item equals one violation.

   (f)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, or part of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid
by any final court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 3-28-18, p. 73481, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 4-18-18, p.
75059, § 2)

8-4-150 Use of sirens for air raid alarms only.

   For the duration of any war in which the United States is engaged no
person, including without limiting the generality of the word "person"
all persons upon an authorized emergency vehicle, shall sound a siren
for any purpose. For the purposes of this section, the term "siren"
shall not include a foghorn when used for the protection of navigation
in and about the Chicago Harbor.

   This section shall not apply to any person officially designated by
the mayor to sound a siren as an air raid alarm.

   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
not less than $100.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-6.1)

8-4-160 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-31-04, p. 20916, § 1.1, repealed § 8-4-160,
which pertained to bonfires.

8-4-170 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-4-170,
which pertained to masking in public.

8-4-180 Possessing burglar's tools.

   A person possesses burglary tools when he possesses any tool, key,
instrument, device, or any explosive suitable for use in breaking into
any building, housetrailer, watercraft, aircraft, vehicle, railroad car,
or any depository designed for the safekeeping of property, or any part
thereof, with intent to enter any such place and with intent to commit
therein a felony or theft.

   A person convicted of the possession of burglary tools shall be fined
not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00.

(Prior code § 193-10)

8-4-190 Throwing objects on athletic fields.

   No person shall throw, drop, or place upon any baseball park,
athletic field, or other place where games are played any bottle or
other glass receptacle or any broken bottle or other broken instrument
or thing. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00 for each
offense.

(Prior code § 193-12)

8-4-195 Illegal conduct within sports facilities.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

      "Sports facility" means any enclosed or partially enclosed stadium
used for sporting events or athletic contests or both and having a
seating capacity in excess of 3,000 persons.

      "Restricted area" includes: the playing field, court, playing
surface, swimming pool and any other portion of a sports facility used
for sporting events or athletic contests; a locker room, a warm-up area,
a team assembly area, a team bench area and any other portion of a
sports facility closed by the facility operator to spectators or
patrons.

   (b)   No person shall enter or remain in or on any restricted area of
a sports facility except with the express permission of the facility's
operator. Any person who violates this subsection (b) shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of $1,000
and incarceration for a period not less than 30 days and not more than
six months.

   (c)   Within the portion of a sports facility where patrons and
spectators are permitted, no person shall intentionally or knowingly,
and without legal justification (1) cause bodily harm to an individual
or (2) make physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. Any person who violates this subsection (c) shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of up to
$1,000.00 and/or incarceration for a period not to exceed six months.

   (d)   Actions under this section shall be filed and prosecuted as
misdemeanor actions under the procedure set forth in Section 1-2-1.1 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended.

(Added Coun. J. 6-4-03, p. 2466, § 1)

8-4-200 Objects on sills or railings.

   It shall not be lawful for any person to place or keep on any
window-sill, railing, or balcony, top of porch, or any other projection
from any house or other building in the city, any flower pot, wooden
box, bowl, pitcher, or other article or thing unless the same is
securely and firmly fastened or protected so as to render it impossible
for any such pot, bowl, pitcher or other article to fall into the public
way. Any person violating this section shall be fined not more than
$50.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-13)

8-4-210 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. XXI, § 3, repealed §
8-4-210, which pertained to spikes in railings and fences.

8-4-220 Clay holes and excavations.

   The owner, lessee or person in possession of any real estate within
the city upon which are located or situated any clay holes or other
similar excavations is hereby required to cause such clay holes or other
excavations to be enclosed with wooden or wire fences, of not less than
six feet in height. When such fences are of wire only smooth or
nonbarbed wire shall be used below a height of six feet above the
established grade or above the ground where no grade has been
established, and such fence or fences shall consist of not less than
eight rows of wire, and such rows of wire shall not be more than nine
inches apart.

(Prior code § 193-15)

8-4-230 Use of flag – Misdemeanor.

   Any person who (a) for exhibition or display, places or causes to be
placed any word, figure, mark, picture, design, drawing, or any
advertisement of any nature, upon any flag, standard, color or ensign of
the United States, or any foreign flag of any nation or ensign, or state
flag of this state or ensign, or city flag of this city or ensign, (b)
exposes or causes to be exposed to public view any such flag, standard,
color or ensign, upon which has been printed, painted or otherwise
placed, or to which has been attached, appended, affixed, or annexed,
any word, figure, mark, picture, design or drawing or any advertisement
of any nature, (c) exposes to public view, manufactures, sells, exposes
for sale, gives away, or has in possession for sale or to give away or
for use for any purpose, any article of substance, being an article of
merchandise, or a receptacle of merchandise or article or thing for
carrying or transporting merchandise upon which has been printed,
painted, attached, or otherwise placed a representation of any such
flag, standard, color, or ensign, to advertise, call attention to,
decorate, mark or distinguish the article or substance on which so
placed, or (d) shall knowingly mutilate, deface, defile or defy, trample
or cast contempt upon by offensive touching or laying upon the ground or
floor, any such flag, standard, color or ensign shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to imprisonment not to exceed six months and a
fine not to exceed $250.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-16; Added Coun. J. 3-16-89, p. 25723)

8-4-240 Ragpicking – Peddling – Junk collection.

   No person shall engage in the occupation of ragpicking, the peddling
of any article or thing, or the purchasing or collection of junk by
handcart, automobile or other vehicle in any public alley between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except in the area bounded on the
north by the Chicago River, on the south by East and West Roosevelt
Road, on the east by Lake Michigan and on the west by the Chicago River;
provided no ragpicking shall be permitted at any time of the day or
night on Sundays or legal holidays. Any person violating this section
shall be fined not less than $5.00 nor more than $50.00 for each
offense.

(Prior code § 193-17; Amend Coun. J. 10-7-98, p. 78812)

8-4-250 Trespassing on property.

   No person shall enter into or upon any lot, block, or tract of ground
in the city which is under cultivation, unless such person be an owner,
lessee, or person entitled so to enter, or the duly authorized agent
thereof, and any person found by the police in and upon any such
premises shall be treated as a trespasser unless he can produce
satisfactory evidence of ownership or right to be in and upon any such
premises.

   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $100.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-18; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 5.2)

8-4-260 Trespassing on elevated track.

   Whenever any track of any railroad in the city has been or may
hereafter be elevated in accordance with the ordinances of the city, no
person shall wilfully trespass upon said elevated roadway or track, nor
shall anyone aid, abet, or assist therein; provided, however, that the
employees of such railroad, acting in the discharge of their duties, may
enter or be upon, or walk along or cross such elevated tracks or roadway
at any place.

(Prior code § 193-19)

8-4-270 Advertising and signs on buildings.

   No person shall post, stick, stamp, tack, paint, or otherwise fix, or
cause the same to be done by another person, any notice, placard, bill,
handbill, sign, poster, card advertisement, or other device calculated
to attract the attention of the public, upon any building or part
thereof, wall or part thereof, or window, without first obtaining the
written consent of the owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of such
premises or structure.

(Prior code § 193-20; Amend Coun. J. 3-5-03, p. 104990, § 9; Amend Coun.
J. 11-13-07, p. 14999, Art. II, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-24-12, p. 25060, §
2)

8-4-280 Removing sod or earth.

   No person shall dig, cut, or remove any sod or earth from any public
way within the City without first having obtained a permit from the
Commissioner of Transportation, or from any other public place within
the City without first having obtained a permit from the Commissioner of
Fleet and Facility Management, or from any premises not his own without
first having obtained the consent of the owner, under a penalty of not
less than $50.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-21; Amend Coun. J. 12-11-91, p. 10832; Amend Coun. J.
11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. III, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11390,
Art. III, § 14; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. I, § 14)

8-4-290 Removal of sod along public way.

   No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any property
adjoining or contiguous to a public way in such a manner as to leave
said property in an unsafe or unsanitary condition or in such condition
as will constitute a public nuisance.

(Prior code § 193-21.1)

8-4-300 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-4-300,
which pertained to fraud through spiritualism.

8-4-305 Unlawful representation as transportation network driver.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate a
transportation network driver or falsely represent themselves as a
transportation network driver with the intent to defraud or deceive any
other person by any of the following means: (1) a false statement; (2) a
false display of any signage or emblems issued under Section 9-115-120
of this Code, any other distinctive signage or emblems known as trade
dress, trademark, branding, or logo of a transportation network
provider, or any counterfeit or imitation of the foregoing; (3) any act
which falsely represents that the person has a current affiliation with
a transportation network provider; or (4) any act which falsely
represents that person is responding to a passenger ride request for
transportation network service. For purposes of this section,
"transportation network provider" and "transportation network service"
have the respective definitions, set forth in Section 9-115-010 of this
Code.

   (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $10,000 nor more than $20,000, or imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 180 days, or both, for each offense. Each violation
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 2-19-20, p. 14141, § 1)

8-4-310 Forging signatures.

   Whenever it may be necessary, in order to procure a license, permit,
grant, or privilege of any kind or to obtain a referendum vote on any
proposition, to secure signatures to a petition for the same under the
provisions of this Code or under any law or ordinance affecting the
whole or any part of the city, it shall be unlawful for any person,
individually, or any firm or corporation by its members, officers or
agents, to forge the signature or procure the forging of the signature
to the same of any person who is by law qualified to sign such petition,
or to sign or procure the signing of a fictitious name to such petition,
or to procure the signature to the same of the person qualified to sign
such petition by payment of money or other valuable thing to the person
so signing.

   Any person that shall violate the provisions of this section by
forging a signature, signing a fictitious name, or purchasing a
signature, or by procuring the doing of same, shall be fined not less
than $5.00 nor more than $200.00 dollars for each offense, and the
signing or procuring of each false or fraudulent name to such petition
shall be regarded as a distinct and separate offense.

(Prior code § 193-23)

8-4-315 Fraud relating to official documents.

   (a)   For purposes of this section, "official documents" refers to
any document produced by a government agency, including but not limited
to a driver's license, identification card or paper, or certificate
relating to a foreign citizen's resident status, such as visa, entry,
citizenship and resident alien documents. A person commits fraud
relating to official documents when he:

      (i)   misrepresents to any person that a document is official or
that a document has been produced by, produced on behalf of, or
authorized by the I.N.S. or any other government agency, when the
document in fact has not been produced by a government agency; or

      (ii)   misrepresents to any person that he is legally authorized
or otherwise qualified to obtain or dispense official documents; or

      (iii)   makes any false or misleading statement regarding any
person's eligibility to obtain permanent resident status in the United
States.

   (b)   Any person who violates subsection (a) of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than $2,000.00, plus
the actual costs incurred by the victim that can be directly attributed
to the fraud. To the extent permitted by law, the cost shall be payable
to the person who incurred them.

   (c)   In addition to the penalties specified in subsection (b) of
this section, violators of this section are subject to all applicable
enforcement provisions in Title 4 of the Municipal Code, and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder; and to orders of injunctive
relief entered by a court or administrative agency of competent
jurisdiction.

(Added Coun. J. 7-29-98, p. 75082; Amend Coun. J. 1-17-13, p. 45384, §
1)

8-4-320 Deceptive advertising.

   No person shall, with intent to sell or in anywise dispose of
merchandise, securities, service, or anything offered directly or
indirectly to the public for sale or distribution, or with intent to
increase the consumption thereof, or to induce the public in any manner
to enter into any obligation relating thereto, or to acquire title
thereto or any interest therein, make, publish, disseminate, circulate,
or place before the public, or cause directly or indirectly to be made,
published, disseminated, circulated, or placed before the public, in
this city, in any newspaper or other publication sold or offered for
sale upon any public way, or other public place, or on any sign upon any
public way or other public place, or in any handbill or advertisement
posted upon any public way or public place, or on any placard,
advertisement, or handbill exhibited or carried in any public way or
public place, or on any banner or sign flying across the public way or
from any house, an advertisement of any sort regarding merchandise,
securities, service, or anything so offered to the public, which
advertisement contains any assertion, representation, or statement which
is untrue, deceptive, or misleading. Any person violating any provision
of this section shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than
$200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-24)

8-4-321 International wire transfers – Posting of notice required.

   A person engaged in the business of transmitting money by wire to a
location outside the United States of America shall post a sign in a
conspicuous location on the premises where such transactions occur. The
sign shall be in English, Spanish and Polish, in capital letters of no
less than 18 point type, and shall state as follows:

      In Addition To The Fees Applicable To This Transaction, A Currency
Conversion Rate Will Be Applied To This Transaction If This Transaction
Is Paid Out In A Currency Other Than United States Dollars. This
Currency Rate Constantly Changes. Please Ask The Clerk For Information
Concerning Fees And The Currency Exchange Rate Applicable To This
Transaction.

   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00, for each offense, or
incarceration of not less than ten days and not more than 30 days for
each offense, or both a fine and incarceration. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
Nothing in this section shall apply to a bank or trust company that is
organized under state, federal or foreign law or to any affiliate
thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 5-20-98, p. 68166)

8-4-325 Deceptive practices – Residential real estate.

   (a)   No person shall engage in any act of consumer fraud or unfair
method of competition or deceptive practice in connection with any
contract which may result in the foreclosure on any residential real
estate that is situated within the city. Nothing in this section shall
be construed as permitting the regulation of any business to the extent
that such regulation is not permitted under the statutory or home rule
powers of the city.

   (b)   The commissioner of business affairs and consumer protection
shall be charged with the enforcement of this section, and may institute
an action in the department of administrative hearings to determine
liability and seek remedies provided in this section.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $500.00 and not more than $10,000.00, and may be
ordered to pay restitution and may be subject to other equitable relief.

(Added Coun. J. 8-30-00, p. 39074, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-19-08, p.
47220, Art. V, § 5)

8-4-330 Recruitment restrictions.

   No person shall force, threaten to use force, intimidate or coerce
another to join any group, club or organization. This section shall not
apply to persons engaged in lawful concerted activities governed and
protected by the federal statute commonly known as the "National Labor
Relations Act".

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $500.00 for each offense or shall be punished by
imprisonment for a period of not more than six months or both.

(Prior code § 193-26)

8-4-340 Charitable entertainments – Restriction on promotional
materials.

   No person shall use any ticket, poster, placard, badge, or other
advertisement in the promotion of any dance, bazaar, picnic, game,
theater, or other entertainment or performance purporting to be given
for charitable purposes unless the names of the persons or organizations
intended to be benefited by the receipts from such entertainment or
performance are stated on such ticket, poster, placard, badge, or other
advertisement.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $10.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-27)

8-4-350 Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in public
transportation safety zones.

   (a)   Definition. For purposes of this section, "public
transportation safety zone" means:

      (1)   any bus, train, or other form of transportation operated by
a transportation authority that is funded, in whole or in part, with
public funds;

      (2)   in, or within 100 feet of, any building, real property, or
parking area under the control of a public transportation authority that
is funded, in whole or in part, with public funds; and

      (3)   within 100 feet of any bus shelter or sign designating the
location of a bus stop utilized by a transportation authority that is
funded, in whole or in part, with public funds.

   (b)   Penalties.

      (1)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Sections 8-20-075 and 8-20-085 of this Code that occur in public
transportation safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 120 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 150 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (2)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Section 8-20-060 of this Code that occur in public transportation
safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (3)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Section 8-24-020 of this Code that occur in public transportation
safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00, and incarceration for a term
not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $2,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

(Added Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59905, § 1)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed a former §
8-4-350, which pertained to promotion of marriage.

8-4-355 Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in student safety
zones, parks or playgrounds.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply:

      (1)   "Park" means any public park or playground that is not part
of a school, during the times of allowed access pursuant to Section
10-36-110, and "playground" means any playground area that is part of a
school, during the times of allowed access set forth in Section
10-36-120.

      (2)   "School" means any public, private, or parochial elementary,
middle, or secondary school in the City of Chicago.

      (3)   "School zone" means:

         (A)   in a school or on its grounds; or

         (B)   within 1,000 feet of the grounds of a school.

      (4)   "School activity" means any extracurricular event occurring
in a school (the "host school") or on its grounds that is announced to
the public via the Internet at least one day in advance. The online
announcement shall state the starting and ending times of the event. If
the event does not have a set ending time, the announcement shall state
an estimated ending time. If an event is not announced online at least
one day in advance, or if the online announcement does not state both
the starting time and the set or estimated ending time, the event does
not qualify as a "school activity" for purposes of this section.

      (5)   "Safe passage route" means any portion of the public way
designated by the Mayor of the City of Chicago, or his designee, for use
by students travelling to and from a particular school (the route's
"associated school"). The locations of safe passage routes and the
identities of their associated schools shall be made available to the
public via the Internet.

      (6)   "Student safety zone" means:

         (A)   any school zone between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 7:00
P.M. on any day the school is in session;

         (B)   the school zone of any host school during any school
activity, and within 60 minutes before the starting time and 60 minutes
after the set or estimated ending time of such school activity, as
announced online pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of this section;

         (C)   any safe passage route between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and
7:00 P.M. on any day the associated school is in session;

         (D)   any safe passage route during any school activity at the
route's associated school, and within 60 minutes before the starting
time and 60 minutes after the set or estimated ending time of such
school activity, as announced online pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of
this section;

         (E)   inside any moving or stationary school bus being used to
transport school children.

   (b)   Penalties.

      (1)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Sections 8-20-075 and 8-20-085 of this Code that occur in student
safety zones, parks or playgrounds:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 120 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 150 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (2)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Section 8-20-060 of this Code that occur in student safety zones,
parks or playgrounds:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (3)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of section 8-24-020 of this Code that occur in student safety zones,
parks or playgrounds:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00, and incarceration for a term
not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $2,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

   (c)   If a violation of Section 8-20-060, 8-20-075, 8-20-085, or
8-24-020 occurs in a location that meets both the definition of "school
zone" in subsection 8-4-355(a)(3), and either the definition of "park"
or "playground" in subsection 8-4-355(a)(1), during a time period that
causes enhanced liability to apply under this section pursuant to only
one of those definitions, the definition that results in enhanced
liability shall apply.

(Added Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57257, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p.
59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 1-21-15, p. 101918, § 1)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 3, renumbered a former §
8-4-355 as § 1-20-090, which pertained to failure to pay debt due and
owing the city.

8-4-356 Enhanced penalties for offenses committed in senior and nursing
home safety zones.

   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply:

      (1)   "Senior Living Center" means:

         (A)   any elderly housing unit as defined in Section
17-17-0250;

         (B)   any adult family care center that is owned or rented for
the purpose of providing care for three or more adults, ages 55 or
older, as defined in Section 4-6-080;

         (C)   any assisted living establishment where sleeping
accommodations are provided for at least three unrelated adults, at
least 80 percent of whom are 55 years of age or older, as defined in
Section 4-6-090;

         (D)   any supportive living facility for persons who are 65
years of age or older as defined in Title 89 III. Adm. Code 146, Subpart
8.

      (2)   "Nursing Home" means any long-term care facility as that
term is defined in the Illinois Nursing Home Care Act, 210 ILCS 45.

      (3)   "Senior and Nursing Home Safety Zone" means:

         (A)   the premises comprising a Senior Living Center or Nursing
Home; or

         (B)   within 500 feet of the property line of any building,
real property, or parking area, controlled by a Senior Living Center or
Nursing Home.

   (b)   Penalties.

      (1)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Sections 8-20-075 and 8-20-085 of this Code that occur in senior and
nursing home safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 120 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 150 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (2)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Section 8-20-060 of this Code that occur in senior and nursing home
safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $5,000.00 nor more than $15,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $20,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

      (3)   The following enhanced penalties shall apply to violations
of Section 8-24-020 of this Code that occur in senior and nursing home
safety zones:

         (A)   the penalty for a first offense shall be a fine of not
less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00, and incarceration for a term
not less than 30 days nor more than six months;

         (B)   the penalty for a second offense shall be a fine of not
less than $1,000.00 nor more than $2,000.00, and incarceration for a
term not less than 90 days nor more than six months; and

         (C)   the penalty for a third or subsequent offense shall be a
fine of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00, and
incarceration for a term of six months.

(Added Coun. J. 5-25-18, p. 77907, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p.
100029, Art. II, § 93)

8-4-360 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where no
other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined not more than
$200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-35 (part))

CHAPTER 8-8
PUBLIC MORALS

8-8-010   House of ill-fame or assignation.

8-8-020   Directing persons to houses of ill-fame.

8-8-030   Prostitution or lewdness in conveyances.

8-8-040   Revocation of license.

8-8-050   Reserved.

8-8-060   Solicitation for prostitution.

8-8-070   Reserved.

8-8-080   Indecent exposure or dress.

8-8-090   Indecent publications and exhibitions.

8-8-100   Sale of literature represented as immoral.

8-8-110   Material harmful to minors unlawful.

8-8-120   Violation – Penalty for Section 8-8-110.

8-8-130   Reserved.

8-8-140   Reserved.

8-8-150   Reserved.

8-8-160   Selling nontransferable railroad tickets.

8-8-170   Selling or giving away transfers.

8-8-180   Manipulating telephone coin boxes.

8-8-190   Violation – Penalty.

8-8-010 House of ill-fame or assignation.

   Every house of ill-fame or house of assignation where men and women
resort for the purpose of fornication, prostitution, or lewdness is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.

   No person shall keep or maintain a house of ill- fame or assignation,
or a place for the practice of fornication, prostitution, or lewdness.
Each 24 hours that such house or place shall be kept or maintained for
such purpose shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

   No person shall patronize, frequent, be found in, or be an inmate of
any such house or place used for any of the purposes set forth in this
section.

   No person shall lease to another any house, room, or other premises,
in whole or in part, for any of the uses or purposes set forth in this
section or knowingly permit the same to be used or occupied for such
purposes.

(Prior code § 192-1)

8-8-020 Directing persons to houses of ill-fame.

   No person knowingly shall direct, take, transport, or offer to
direct, take, or transport, any person for immoral purposes to any other
person, or assist any person by any means to seek or to find any
prostitute or other person engaged in immoral practices, or any brothel,
bawdy house, or any other place of ill-fame.

   Any person that shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $400.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 192-2; Amend Coun. J. 9-4-02, p. 92888, § 1)

8-8-030 Prostitution or lewdness in conveyances.

   No person shall knowingly receive any person for purposes of
lewdness, assignation, or prostitution into or upon any vehicle or other
conveyance or permit any person to remain for any of the said purposes
in or upon any such vehicle or other conveyance.

   Any person that shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $400.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 192-3; Amend Coun. J. 9-4-02, p. 92888, § 1)

8-8-040 Revocation of license.

   The license of any such person or employees thereof directly involved
in the violation of Sections 8-8-020 or 8-8-030 may be revoked, and also
the license of the vehicle or conveyance used may be revoked in the
discretion of the mayor. No license so revoked hereunder shall be
reinstated until the lapse of a period of one year after such
revocation.

(Prior code § 192-4)

8-8-050 Reserved.

Editor’s note – Coun. J. 6-27-18, p. 80207, § 2, repealed § 8-8-050,
which pertained to soliciting – penalty.

8-8-060 Solicitation for prostitution.

   (a)   For the purposes of this section:

      (1)   "Public place" means any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or
alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility
or the doorways and entrance ways to any building which fronts on any of
the aforesaid places, or a motor vehicle in or on any such place, or any
other public way.

      (2)   "Prostitution", "solicitation of a sexual act" and
"promoting prostitution" have the same meanings given them in Title III,
Part B, Article 11, Subdivision 15 of the Illinois Criminal Code of
2012.

   (b)   Prostitution.

      (1)   Any person who appears, remains, or wanders about in a
public place and repeatedly beckons to, or repeatedly attempts to
engage, passersby in conversation, or repeatedly interferes with the
free passage of other persons, for the purpose of prostitution, shall be
guilty of a violation of this section.

      (2)   Any person who appears, remains, or wanders about in a
public place and exposes the genitals, vulva, pubis, pubic hair,
buttocks, perineum, anus, anal region or pubic hair region, or any
portion of the female breast at or below the upper edge of the areola,
for the purpose of prostitution shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.

   (c)   Solicitation of a Sexual Act.

      (1)   A person commits solicitation of a sexual act when a person
remains or wanders about in a public place and repeatedly beckons to, or
repeatedly attempts to engage, passersby in conversation, or repeatedly
interferes with the free passage of other persons, for the purpose of
soliciting a sexual act.

      (2)   Any person who responds to the beckoning of a prostitute in
a public place by inquiring about, negotiating for, accepting an offer
of or engaging in an act of prostitution, or by allowing another into
his or her motor vehicle for purposes of inquiring about, negotiating
for, accepting an offer of or engaging in an act of prostitution, shall
be guilty of a violation of this section. The superintendent of police
shall make available to local newspapers, radio and television stations
the names of all persons charged with violating this section.

      (3)   Any person who by any overt acts in or upon the public ways
or in any hotel, motel or other public place of accommodation or on
public conveyances or in any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages, offers to perform or who solicits for another person to
perform any act of prostitution shall be guilty of a violation of this
section.

   (d)   Promoting Prostitution.

      (1)   Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place
and repeatedly beckons to, or repeatedly attempts to engage, passersby
in conversation, or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other
persons, for the purpose of promoting prostitution shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.

      (2)   Any person who promotes prostitution by any overt acts in a
public place, or in any hotel, motel, or other public place of
accommodation, or on any public conveyances, or in any establishment
licensed to sell alcoholic beverages shall be guilty of a violation of
this section.

   (e)   Penalties.

      (1)   A person who violates Section 8-8-060(b) shall be fined not
less than $50.00 nor more than $1,500.00, or imprisoned for a period of
not more than six months, or both fined and imprisoned, for each
offense. In addition to or instead of the foregoing penalties, the
corporation counsel shall request that a violator be required to perform
up to 120 hours of community service.

      (2)   A person who violates Section 8-8-060(c) or 8-8-060(d) shall
be fined not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $1,750.00, for the first
offense and be fined not less than $1,750.00 nor more than $3,000.00 for
each subsequent offense and may be imprisoned for a period of not more
than six months. In addition to the foregoing penalties, the corporation
counsel shall request that each violator be required to perform up to
120 hours of community service.

         (A)   A motor vehicle that is used in the violation of this
section, or in the commission of prostitution, solicitation of a sexual
act, promoting prostitution, patronizing a prostitute as defined in
Section 11-18 of the Criminal Code of 2012, or patronizing a minor
engaged in prostitution as defined in Section 11-18.1 of such code,
shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this subsection. The
owner of record of such vehicle shall be liable to the City for an
administrative penalty of $2,000.00 in addition to fees for the towing
and storage of the vehicle.

         (B)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe
that a vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this
section, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle
to a facility controlled by the City or its agents. Before or at the
time the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any person
identifying himself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation or the person who is found to be in control of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such person,
of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request a
preliminary hearing to be conducted under Section 2-14-132 of this Code
by serving such person with a copy of the vehicle impoundment seizure
report.

\         (C)   Section 2-14-132 shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is
seized and impounded pursuant to this section.

(Prior code § 192-5.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-14-84, p. 10994; Amend Coun. J.
7-24-91, p. 3938; Amend Coun. J. 7-29-92, p. 20064; Amend Coun. J.
7-14-93, p. 35530; Amend Coun. J. 6-10-96, p. 23795; Amend Coun. J.
7-31-96, p. 26907; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564, § 2; Amend Coun. J.
9-9-98, p. 77360; Amend Coun. J. 9-4-02, p. 92888, § 1; Amend Coun. J.
12-15-04, p. 39840, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 14596, Art. I, § 1;
Amend Coun. J. 6-27-18, p. 80207, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 7-22-20, p. 18957,
§ 5)

8-8-070 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-7-03, p. 794, § 1, repealed § 8-8-070, which
pertained to indecent acts and words.

8-8-080 Indecent exposure or dress.

   Any person who shall appear, bathe, sunbathe, walk or be in any
public park, playground, beach or the waters adjacent thereto, or any
school facility and the area adjacent thereto, or any municipal building
and the areas adjacent thereto, or any public way within the City of
Chicago in such a manner that the genitals, vulva, pubis, pubic hair,
buttocks, perineum, anus, anal region, or pubic hair region of any
person, or any portion of the breast at or below the upper edge of the
areola thereof of any female person, is exposed to public view or is not
covered by an opaque covering, shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor
more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 192-8; Amend Coun. J. 12-4-02, p. 99931, § 5.4)

8-8-090 Indecent publications and exhibitions.

   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell,
print, offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute, or
attempt to distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper,
writing, card, advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph,
motion picture film, play, image, instrument, statue, drawing, or other
article which is obscene. Any person violating any provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than $20.00 nor more than $200.00 for
each offense.

   Obscene for the purpose of this section is defined as follows:
whether to the average person, applying contemporary community
standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals
to prurient interests.

(Prior code § 192-9)

8-8-100 Sale of literature represented as immoral.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or to offer or to
exhibit for sale, in sealed form, or in any form which indicates that
the sale thereof is surreptitious or contrary to law, any book,
pamphlet, or literature of any kind bearing the title of some well-
known book of salacious character, or bearing the title of a book of
which the sale is prohibited, or bearing the title of a book of which
the contents are actually lewd, lascivious, obscene, immoral, or
indecent. It shall likewise be unlawful to sell, or to offer or exhibit
for sale, any book, pamphlet, or literature of any kind having anything
about it which indicates that its contents are of an obscene, immoral,
lewd, lascivious, or indecent character, or to sell, or to offer or
exhibit for sale, any book, pamphlet, or literature of any kind under
the guise or pretense that the same is obscene, immoral, lewd,
lascivious, or indecent, or in a manner that indicates concealment of
anything as contrary to law or immoral contained therein, or to use any
pretense, trick, fraud, artifice, or device to convey the impression
that such book, pamphlet, or literature is lewd, lascivious, indecent,
obscene, or immoral, whether such pretense, trick, fraud, artifice or
device is a misrepresentation in regard to the contents of the same or
not.

(Prior code § 192-10)

8-8-110 Material harmful to minors unlawful.

   A.   For the purposes of this section the following words shall be
defined as follows:

      (a)   "Minor" means any person under the age of 18 years.

      (b)   "Nudity" means the showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering,
or the showing of the female breast with less than a full opaque
covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or the
depiction of covered male genitals in a discernible turgid state.

      (c)   "Sexual conduct" includes any of the following depicted
sexual conduct:

         (i)   Any act of sexual intercourse, actual or simulated,
including genital, anal-genital, or oral- genital intercourse, whether
between human beings or between a human being and an animal;

         (ii)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture
by or upon a person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a
revealing costume or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restricted on the part of one so clothed;

         (iii)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals
including any explicit, closeup representation of a human genital organ;

         (iv)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the
clothed or unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female,
or the breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the
same or opposite sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent
sexual stimulation or gratification;

         (v)   An act of sexual assault where physical violence or drugs
are employed to overcome the will of or achieve the consent of a person
to an act of sexual conduct and the effects or results of the violence
or drugs are shown.

      (d)   "Sexual excitement" means the condition of human male or
female genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.

      (e)   "Harmful to minors" means that quality of any description or
representation in whatever form, or nudity, sexual conduct, or sexual
excitement, when it:

         (i)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful, or
morbid interest of minors in sex; and

         (ii)   Is patently offensive to contemporary standards in the
adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable sexual
material for minors; and

         (iii)   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.

      (f)   "Knowingly" means having general knowledge of, or reason to
know, or a belief or ground for belief which warrants further inspection
or inquiry or both.

   B.   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or loan for
monetary consideration to a minor any written, photographic, printed,
sound, published material or videotape, or similar visual representation
or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts nudity,
sexual conduct, or sexual excitement and which is harmful to minors.

   It is unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to exhibit,
display, sell, offer to sell, lend, give away, circulate, distribute, or
attempt to distribute any written, photographic, printed, sound,
published material or videotape which is harmful to minors in its
context in any place where minors are or may be present or allowed to be
present and where minors are able to view such material unless each item
of such material is at all times kept in a sealed wrapper.

   It is also unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to
exhibit, display, sell, offer to sell, give away, circulate, distribute,
or attempt to distribute, any written, photographic, printed, sound,
published material or videotape whose cover, covers, or packaging,
standing alone, is harmful to minors, in any place where minors are to
be present and where minors are able to view such material unless each
item of such material is at all times blocked from view by an opaque
cover. The requirement of an opaque cover shall be deemed satisfied
concerning such material if those portions of the cover, covers, or
packaging containing such material harmful to minors are blocked from
view by an opaque cover.

   The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to distribution or
attempt to distribute the exhibition, display, sale, offer of sale,
circulation, giving away of material harmful to minors where such
material is sold, exhibited, displayed, offered for sale, given away,
circulated, distributed, or attempted to be distributed under
circumstances where minors are not present, not allowed to be present,
or are not able to view such material or the cover, covers, or packaging
of such material. Any business may comply with the requirements of this
clause by physically segregating such material in a manner so as to
physically prohibit the access to and view of the material by minors, by
prominently posting at the entrance(s) to such restricted area, "Adults
Only – you must be 18 to enter", and by enforcing said restrictions.

(Prior code § 192-10.1; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-86, p. 37627; Amend Coun.
J. 7-29-87, p. 2824)

8-8-120 Violation – Penalty for Section 8-8-110.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of Section 8-8-110 shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in an amount not less than $100.00 nor more than $200.00 or be
imprisoned for a period not exceeding six months or be both so fined and
imprisoned. Each day that such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as
such hereunder. If more than one written, photographic, printed, sound,
published material or videotape shall knowingly be sold, lent,
displayed, offered to be sold, given away, circulated, distributed or in
any way furnished or attempted to be furnished to any such person in
violation of Section 8-8-110, the sale, loan, display, offer to sell,
giving away, circulation, distribution or in any way furnishing or
attempting to furnish to any such person of each separate written,
photographic, printed, sound, published material or videotape shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such hereunder.

(Prior code § 192-10.2; Amend Coun. J. 11-26-86, p. 37627)

8-8-130 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-8-130,
which pertained to museums of anatomy.

8-8-140 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-8-140,
which pertained to bathing suits.

8-8-150 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 10-3-01, p. 68130, § 4, repealed § 8-8-150,
which pertained to artificially affecting prices.

8-8-160 Selling nontransferable railroad tickets.

   No person shall be permitted to remain in or about any railroad depot
in the city, having in his possession the unused portion or portions of
nontransferable railroad tickets restricted for the use to the original
purchaser thereof by the railroad company issuing the same, for the
purpose of selling the same, offering the same for sale, advertising the
same for sale, or in any manner to aid in the sale or purchase of such
partially used nontransferable railroad tickets.

   No person shall sell within the city the whole or any portion of any
said ticket.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $5.00 nor more than $50.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 192-16)

8-8-170 Selling or giving away transfers.

   No person, in violation of the rules or regulations approved or
promulgated by the Illinois Commerce Commission shall sell, barter, or
exchange for any consideration any transfer ticket or other instrument
issued by any person operating any street railroad, elevated rapid
transit railroad, unified local transportation system, or otherwise,
within the city, giving, or purporting to give to the holder of such
transfer ticket or other instrument the right to transfer from one
street railroad car, bus, or trolley bus to another street railway car,
bus, or trolley bus on the same line or route or on any other line or
route, or from a street railroad car, bus, or trolley bus to an elevated
railroad car or train, or from an elevated railroad car or train to a
street railroad car, bus, or trolley bus.

   No person shall give away any such transfer ticket or other
instrument as aforesaid to another for the purpose of enabling, or with
intent to enable, the latter to use or offer the same for passage upon
any car, bus, or trolley bus of said street railroad, elevated rapid
transit railroad, unified local transportation system, or otherwise; nor
shall any person not lawfully entitled thereto receive or acquire
possession of any such transfer ticket or other instrument as aforesaid,
use, or attempt to use, or offer the same for passage upon any car, bus,
or trolley bus of the said street railroad, elevated rapid transit
railroad, unified local transportation company, or otherwise. Provided,
however, that this section shall not relate to, or in any manner affect,
the issuing and giving of transfer tickets or other instruments as
aforesaid by the agents or employees of any street railroad, elevated
rapid transit railroad, unified local transportation system, or
otherwise, to passengers thereof lawfully entitled thereto.

(Prior code § 192-17)

8-8-180 Manipulating telephone coin boxes.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or to attempt to
insert, into the coin box or money receptacle of any telephone, any
slug, button, or other substance, or to manipulate or operate, or to
attempt to manipulate or operate, in any manner whatever, any telephone
instrument or any mechanism or device connected or commonly used
therewith, with the intent to obtain telephone service without paying
therefor.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or to attempt to
insert, into the coin box or money receptacle of any telephone, any
slug, button, wire, hook, or other implements or substances with the
intent to obtain from such coin box or money receptacle a legal tender
coin of the United States.

(Prior code § 192-18)

8-8-190 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where no
other penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than $5.00 nor more
than $200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 192-19)

CHAPTER 8-12
GAMBLING

8-12-010   Gambling prohibited.

8-12-020   Lottery and policy games.

8-12-030   Places for gambling.

8-12-040   Devices for gambling.

8-12-050   Slot and tape machines.

8-12-060   Duty of police.

8-12-070   Betting or gambling at tracks.

8-12-080   Taking bets or pool-selling.

8-12-090   Publishing or circulating information.

8-12-100   Violation – Penalty.

8-12-010 Gambling prohibited.

   No person shall play or engage in faro, roulette, or gambling for
money or other valuable thing, or in any other device or game of chance,
hazard, or skill, either as bookmaker, dealer, keeper, player, or
otherwise, for the purpose of gaming or gambling for money or other
valuable thing. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
any conduct authorized by the following statutes, each as in effect on
May 4, 2022: the Illinois Lottery Law, the Illinois Horse Racing Act,
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games
Act, the Bingo License and Tax Act, the Charitable Games Act, the
Illinois Gambling Act, or the Illinois Sports Wagering Act.

(Prior code § 191-1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872, § 158; Amend
Coun. J. 12-15-21, p. 42922, § 5; Amend Coun. J. 5-25-22, p. 48413, § 7)

8-12-020 Lottery and policy games.

   No person shall keep, occupy or use, or permit to be kept, occupied
or used, a place, building, room, establishment, table, or apparatus for
policy playing or for the purchase, sale, exchange, or redemption of
what are commonly called lottery tickets or policy tickets.

   No person shall deliver or receive money or other valuable
consideration in playing policy or in aiding in the playing thereof, or
for lottery or policy tickets, or for any writing, paper, or document in
the nature of a bet, wager, or insurance upon the drawing or drawn
numbers of any lottery or policy game, whether such drawing be real or
imaginary.

   No person, except a public officer, shall have in his possession or
control any writing, paper, or document representing or being a record
of any chance, share, or interest in numbers sold, drawn, or to be
drawn, in what is commonly called policy, or in the nature of a bet,
wager, or insurance upon the drawing or drawn numbers of any public or
private lottery or policy game, whether such drawing be real or
imaginary.

   No person, other than a public officer, shall have in his possession
or control any paper, print, writing, numbers, device, policy slip,
policy sheet, or article of any kind such as is commonly used in
carrying on, promoting, or playing the game commonly called policy.

   No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter, exchange, give away, or
in any way dispose of or redeem any ticket, order, slip, or device of
any kind for or representing any number of shares or any interest in any
lottery, policy, or scheme of chance of any kind or description by
whatever name, style, or title the same may be denominated or known, and
whether located or drawn, or to be drawn, paid, or carried on within or
without the limits of the city, or whether such purported drawings be
real or imaginary.

   No person shall either publicly or privately, as owner or agent,
establish, carry on, promote, make, draw, or act as "backer" or "vendor"
for or on account of any lottery, policy, or scheme of chance described
in the previous paragraph; nor shall any person be in any way concerned
in any such lottery, policy, or scheme of chance.

   No person who is the owner, lessor, lessee, agent, superintendent,
janitor, or caretaker of any place, building, or room shall permit
policy playing or the barter, sale, exchange, or redemption of what are
commonly called lottery or policy tickets or slips, or the sale of any
chances in alleged drawings in lotteries or policies to be carried on in
such place, building, or room, whether such drawings be real or
imaginary.

   No person shall patronize, frequent, or be found in any place,
building, room, or establishment kept, occupied, or used for policy
playing, for policy or lottery drawings, or for the sale of what are
commonly called lottery or policy tickets or slips, or in which are kept
any paper, prints, writings, numbers, devices, policy tickets, policy
sheets or articles of any kind, such as are commonly used in carrying
on, promoting, or playing the game or scheme commonly called policy.

   No person shall write, print, publish, circulate, or distribute in
any way an account of any lottery, policy, or scheme of chance of any
kind or description by whatsoever name, style, or title the same may be
denominated or known, and no person shall write, print, publish,
circulate, or distribute any book, pamphlet, circular, sheet, or paper
whatsoever containing or purporting to contain information concerning
any lottery, policy, or scheme of chance, or where the same is to be or
has been drawn, or the prizes therein, or the price of a ticket, or
where any such ticket may be or has been obtained, or in any way giving
publicity to any such lottery, policy, or scheme of chance, whether the
drawings therein referred to be real or imaginary.

   No person shall aid, assist, or abet in any manner, or be a party to
any of the offenses, acts, or matters hereinbefore specified.

(Prior code § 191-2)

8-12-030 Places for gambling.

   Every house, room, yard, boat, vessel, or other structure or premises
kept or used for the purpose of permitting persons to gamble for any
valuable thing within the city is hereby declared to be a common
nuisance.

   No person shall own, maintain, manage, or conduct, or be interested
in owning, maintaining, managing, or conducting, any such place.

   No person shall patronize, visit, frequent, or be connected with the
management or operation, or shall act as the doorkeeper, solicitor,
runner, agent, abettor, or pimp of any such house, room, yard, boat,
vessel, or other structure, place, or premises.

(Prior code § 191-3)

8-12-040 Devices for gambling.

   No person shall expose any table, wheel, or device of any kind
whatsoever, intended, calculated, or designed to be used for gaming or
gambling or for playing any game for chance or hazard, in, upon or along
any of the public ways or other public places of the city.

   No person shall bring into the city or have in his possession within
the city, for the purpose of gaming or gambling for money or other
valuable thing, any table, wheel or other device of any kind or
character whatsoever whereon or with which money or any other valuable
thing may in any manner be played or gambled.

(Prior code § 191-4)

8-12-050 Slot and tape machines.

   No person shall keep, own, operate, use, or cause to be kept,
operated or used, in any room, inn, tavern, shed, booth, building,
enclosure, or upon any premises, or any part thereof, any clock,
"joker", tape or slot machine, or other device of any kind or nature
whatsoever, upon, in, by, or through which money is staked or hazarded,
or into which money is paid or played upon chance, or upon the result of
the action of which clock, "joker", tape or slot machine, or other
device, money or other valuable thing is staked, bet, hazarded, won, or
lost.

   Each day which any person shall operate, keep, own, or have in his
charge, possession or control any such clock, "joker", tape or slot
machine, or other such gambling device, in violation of the provisions
of this section, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.

(Prior code § 191-5)

8-12-060 Duty of police.

   It shall be the duty of all members of the department of police to
give information to the mayor of every house, room, yard, boat, vessel,
or other structure or premises within the city wherein any such game or
device or policy shop tickets or lists are or may be set up, kept, or
maintained. Such members of the department of police shall take all
lawful means to suppress and prevent the playing at or use of any faro
table, roulette wheel, or the playing of any game or the use of any
device hereinbefore mentioned. For this purpose, when and as often as
any such member of the department of police shall have reasonable cause
to suspect that any such table, wheel, game, or device is set up, kept,
or maintained anywhere within the city, he shall forthwith make
complaint thereof before some judge of the municipal court and obtain a
warrant authorizing him to enter such house, room, yard, boat, vessel,
or other structure, place, or premises, or any part of the same. Such
member of the department of police shall thereupon have authority to
demand entry thereto. No person shall refuse or fail to open the door or
entrance thereto, or shall obstruct or do anything tending to obstruct
or prevent the entry of such member of the department of police to any
such house, room, yard, boat, vessel, or other structure, place, or
premises, or any part thereof, when such member of the department of
police shall have a warrant.

   It shall be the duty of every member of the department of police to
seize any such table, wheel, instrument, device, or thing. All such
tables, instruments, devices, or things when seized shall be destroyed.

   No person shall obstruct or resist any member of the police
department in the performance of any act herein authorized.

(Prior code § 191-6)

8-12-070 Betting or gambling at tracks.

   All betting, wagering, speculating, pool-selling, or bookmaking upon
any horse race or races or the result thereof, and all gambling and
every game of chance of any nature whatsoever, within or upon any
racetrack and racecourse, or in any building within any racetrack or
racecourse within the city is hereby prohibited.

   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $200.00 for each
offense.

(Prior code § 191-7)

8-12-080 Taking bets or pool-selling.

   No person shall keep, occupy, or control any room, shed, tenement,
tent, booth, building, or other structure, or any part thereof, or
occupy any place anywhere within the city, with any book, instrument, or
device for the purpose of taking, recording, or registering bets or
wagers or of selling pools, or take, record, or register bets or wagers,
or sell pools, upon the result or alleged result of any actual,
supposed, alleged, or fictitious trial or test of skill, speed, or power
of endurance of man or beast, or upon the result or alleged result of
any actual, supposed, alleged, or fictitious political nomination,
appointment, or election. Any person, being the owner, lessee, or
occupant of any room, shed, tenement, tent, booth, building, or other
structure, or part thereof, who shall knowingly permit the same to be
used or occupied for any such purpose or shall therein keep, exhibit, or
employ any device or apparatus for the purpose of taking, recording, or
registering such bets or wagers, or selling such pools, or shall become
the custodian or depositary for hire or reward of any money, property,
or thing of value staked, wagered, or pledged upon any such result or
alleged result, shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than
$200.00 for each offense.

   In prosecutions under this section, proof of the taking, recording,
or registering of such bet or wager, or pool-selling, shall be prima
facie evidence of the violation of said section, and proof shall not be
required that there was any actual, supposed, alleged, or fictitious
trial or test of skill, speed, or power of endurance of man or beast, or
that there was any actual, supposed, alleged, or fictitious political
nomination, appointment, or election to which such bet, wager, or
pool-selling may appertain.

(Prior code § 191-8)

8-12-090 Publishing or circulating information.

   Except as authorized by the Commissioner of Business Affairs and
Consumer Protection under rules established pursuant to Section
4-156-979, no person shall insert, or cause to be inserted, or print or
publish, or cause to be printed or published, in any newspaper or other
publication printed, published, or circulated in the city, any notice,
advertisement, or mention giving or purporting to give information of
where or with whom bets or wagers may be made or placed, or where or by
whom pools are sold upon the result of any trial or test of skill,
speed, or power of endurance of man or beast, or upon the result of any
political nomination, appointment, or election.

   No person shall display or exhibit, or distribute or cause to be
distributed, any circular, blank, handbill, pamphlet, or other thing
containing any such notice, advertisement, or mention described in the
above paragraph.

   No person shall sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit, distribute,
or cause to be distributed, any newspaper or other publication,
circular, blank, handbill, pamphlet, or other written or printed matter
giving or purporting to give information concerning the rates at which
bets are being offered or taken in the city or elsewhere, or the odds
being given or taken on bets within the city or elsewhere, or advice as
to betting or the ratio at which bets should be made upon the result of
any trial or test of skill, speed, or power of endurance of man or
beast, or upon the result of any political nomination, appointment, or
election.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $200.00.

(Prior code § 191-9; Amend Coun. J. 12-15-21, p. 42922, § 6)

8-12-100 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, where no other
penalty is specified, shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than
$200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 191-10)

CHAPTER 8-16
OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS

8-16-001   Definitions.

8-16-010   Cruelty to children.

8-16-020   Curfew hours for minors.

8-16-022   Custody procedure.

8-16-024   Tanning facilities.

8-16-030   Missing – Information to be obtained.

8-16-040   Flipping cars.

8-16-050   Intoxication.

8-16-060   Alcoholic liquor.

8-16-063   Cannabis offenses involving minors.

8-16-065   Social hosting.

8-16-070   Liquor saturated material to children.

8-16-080   Playing with gaming devices.

8-16-090   Firearms for minors.

8-16-095   Possession of etching material and spray can or marker by
underage persons prohibited.

8-16-096   Aiding or assisting underage person in obtaining etching
materials, paint spray cans or markers prohibited.

8-16-100   Exhibiting or employing children.

8-16-110   Working in public places.

8-16-120   Begging or soliciting.

8-16-125   Contributing to delinquency of minor.

8-16-127   Access to the Chicago Public Library by a child sex offender.

8-16-130   Violation – Penalty.

8-16-001 Definitions.

   As used in this chapter:

   "Cannabis" has the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 1-10 of
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.

   "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act" means the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, codified at 410 ILCS 705/1-1, et seq., or its successor act.

   "Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program" means the
Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program established pursuant
to Article 25 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, or its successor
program.

   "Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act" means the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, codified at 410 ILCS
130/1, et seq., or its successor act.

(Added Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 13)

8-16-010 Cruelty to children.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit, cause, or knowingly
permit any of the following offenses against children:

   (a)   Abandon any child;

   (b)   Unnecessarily fail to provide any child in his charge or
custody with proper food, drink, shelter, or raiment;

   (c)   Cruelly beat, torture, overwork, or mutilate any child;

   (d)   Wilfully expose to inclement weather or in any manner injure a
child in health or limb.

(Prior code § 190-1)

8-16-020 Curfew hours for minors.

   (a)   Definitions. Whenever used in this section:

      (1)   "Curfew hours" means:

         (A)   For minors 12 years of age or older, 10:00 p.m. on any
day until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and

         (B)   For minors younger than 12 years of age, 8:30 P.M. on any
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday until 6:00 A.M. of the
following day; and

         (C)   For minors younger than 12 years of age, 9:00 P.M. on any
Friday or Saturday and until 6:00 A.M. of the following day.

      (2)   "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances
or the resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term
includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an
automobile crash, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
serious bodily injury or loss of life.

      (3)   "Establishment" means any privately- owned place of business
operated for a profit to which the public is invited, including but not
limited to any place of amusement or entertainment.

      (4)   "Guardian" means:

         (A)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or

         (B)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been
placed by a court.

      (5)   "Minor" means any person under 18 years of age.

      (6)   "Operator" means any individual, firm, association,
partnership, or corporation operating, managing, or conducting any
establishment. The term includes the members or partners of an
association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.

      (7)   "Parent" means a person who is:

         (A)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person; or

         (B)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.

      (8)   "Public place" means any place to which the public or a
substantial group of the public has access and includes, but is not
limited to, streets, highways, and the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities and
shops.

      (9)   "Remain" means to:

         (A)   Linger or stay; or

         (B)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a
police officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the
premises.

      (10)   "Serious bodily injury" means bodily injury that creates a
substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent
disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily member or organ.

      (11)   "Ticketed or sponsored event" means a civic, charitable,
community-sponsored, neighborhood-sponsored, entertainment, sporting, or
other event: (i) organized, promoted, and carried out in full compliance
with the City's ordinances, rules, and permit requirements by a
not-for-profit entity in good standing with the City, and (ii) that
requires a ticket or wristband for admission.

   (b)   Offenses.

      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.

      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he by
insufficient control allows the minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.

      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment
commits an offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours.

   (c)   Defenses.

      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (b) that the
minor was:

         (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;

         (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or
guardian, without any detour or stop;

         (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;

         (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or
returning home from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;

         (E)   Involved in an emergency;

         (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or
abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not
complain to the police department about the minor's presence;

         (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility
for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or
stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor;

         (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech, and the right of assembly;

         (I)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor
under the Emancipation of Mature Minors Act, as amended; or

         (J)   Participating in, or returning home immediately after, a
ticketed or sponsored event and has documentary evidence of their
attendance at such event, including, but not limited to, a ticket stub
or wristband with the event name preprinted on it.

      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (b)(3) that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified
the police department that a minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.

   (d)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this
section, a police officer shall ask the apparent violator's age and
reason for being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer
reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any
response and other circumstances, no defense in subsection (c) is
present.

   (e)   Penalties. A person who violates any provision of this section
is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense,
upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or an
order to perform community service pursuant to Section 1-4-120 of this
Code, or both. Any person who violates any provision of this section
three times in any twelve-month period shall be subject to up to three
times the maximum monetary fine set forth in this subsection for any
subsequent violation of this section within the twelve-month period, or
as an alternative or in addition to such fine a requirement to perform
community service.

   For purposes of this subsection only, community service may include
attending supportive social services.

   (f)   When issuing a citation for a violation of this section, the
officer shall also provide, in writing, the person being cited with
information, prepared in consultation with the Department of Family and
Support Services, regarding supportive social services.

(Prior code § 190-2; Amend Coun. J. 6-17-92, p. 18292; Amend Coun. J.
6-10-96, p. 23800; Amend Coun. J. 4-29-98, p. 66564; Amend Coun. J.
3-10-04, p. 19860, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 2-6-08, p. 20739, § 1; Amend
Coun. J. 7-28-11, p. 5110, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 10-5-11, p. 8575; Amend
Coun. J. 4-10-13, p. 51273, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-17-21, p. 41319, Art.
IV, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-25-22, p. 48638, § 1)

8-16-022 Custody procedure.

   Any police officer who finds a minor in violation of Section 8-16-020
is authorized to take such minor into custody until such time as the
minor's parent, legal guardian, or other adult having legal care or
custody of the minor is located and notified of the violation, and takes
custody of the minor from the police. If no such person can be located
within a reasonable period of time, the minor shall be referred to the
appropriate juvenile authorities.

(Added Coun. J. 6-17-92, p. 18292)

8-16-024 Tanning facilities.

   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, unless the context
requires otherwise:

      "Commissioner" means the commissioner of the department of public
health.

      "Department" means the department of public health.

      "Tanning equipment" means equipment that emits ultraviolet (UV)
radiation and is used for tanning of the skin, such as a sunlamp,
ultraviolet lamp, tanning booth, or tanning bed. "Tanning equipment"
also includes equipment used in conjunction with the foregoing, such as
protective eyewear, timers, and handrails. "Tanning equipment" does not
include any of the following:

         (1)   Phototherapy devices utilized by appropriate health care
professionals under the direct supervision of a physician who is trained
in the use of phototherapy devices.

         (2)   Devices used for personal use in a private residence.

         (3)   Devices intended for purposes other than the irradiation
of human skin.

         (4)   Devices used to apply chemicals to the skin to achieve a
bronze color, commonly referred to as spray-on, mist-on, or sunless
tans.

      "Tanning facility" means any place, structure, or business that
provides consumers with access to tanning equipment for a fee.

   (b)   Prohibited activity. A tanning facility may not permit any
person less than 18 years of age, regardless of whether the person has
the permission of a parent or guardian, to use tanning equipment.

   (c)   Enforcement. The department shall enforce this section. The
commissioner is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for the
implementation of this section.

   (d)   Fines. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4-6-060, any
person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined $250
for each offense. Each instance of violation of this section shall be
deemed a separate offense.

(Added Coun. J. 6-6-12, p. 28652, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 5-18-16, p. 24253,
§ 2)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-28-11, p. 5110, § 2, repealed a former §
8-16-024, which pertained to the violation of and penalty for §
8-16-020.

8-16-030 Missing – Information to be obtained.

   Whenever there is evidence that any minor is missing, either by
report given by an educational institution to the parent, guardian or
other person responsible for such minor, or by report to the police
department or to the mass media of communications, it shall be the
responsibility of the superintendent of police to obtain a photograph of
said missing minor, together with any pertinent descriptive information,
and to have posted both such photograph and information upon the
premises of any feasible public building owned, leased or maintained by
the City of Chicago. The term "pertinent descriptive information" shall
include, if known, the name, age and physical description of the missing
person, as well as a telephone number of a person of immediate contact.

(Prior code § 190-2.1; Added Coun. J. 10-31-84, p. 10607)

8-16-040 Flipping cars.

   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
climb, jump upon, cling to, or in any way attach himself to any
streetcar, railroad locomotive, or car of any kind while the same is in
motion, under a penalty of not less than $2.00 nor more than $10.00 for
each offense.

(Prior code § 190-3)

8-16-050 Intoxication.

   No minor shall be intoxicated, or shall purchase, offer to purchase,
or in any manner obtain unlawfully for his personal use any intoxicating
liquor. Any minor who violates this section shall be fined not more than
$25.00 for the first offense, and not more than $100.00 for every
subsequent offense; provided, however, any minor who violates this
section while within 800 feet of a parade route which is not open to
traffic shall be fined $500.00 or shall be required to perform 25 hours
of community service for each offense. For purposes of this section, the
term "parade" has the meaning ascribed to the term in Section 10-8-330
of this Code.

(Prior code § 190-4; Amend Coun. J. 2-13-13, p. 46841, § 1)

8-16-060 Alcoholic liquor.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of 21 years. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase, deliver,
possess, give or consume alcoholic liquor.

(Prior code § 190-4.1)

8-16-063 Cannabis offenses involving minors.

   (a)   Sale, Provision or Transfer of Cannabis to Minors Prohibited –
Exception. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection (a), it shall
be unlawful for any person to: (1) sell, give or deliver cannabis, with
or without remuneration, in any amount or in any form to any person
under 21 years of age, or (2) permit cannabis to be sold, given or
delivered, with or without remuneration, in any amount or in any form to
any person under 21 years of age, or (3) allow any person under 21 years
of age to purchase, possess, use, process, transport, grow, or consume
cannabis in any amount or in any form, unless the activity described in
items (1) through (3) of this subsection is authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or Community College
Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program.

   (b)   Possession and Use of Cannabis by Minors Prohibited –
Exception. It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
possess or use cannabis, except in compliance with the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Program Act.

   (c)   Penalty for Violation. Any person who violates this section
shall be subject to a fine of $50.00 for the first offense, and $100.00
for the second and each subsequent offense occurring within a period of
30 days, or may be required to perform community service in accordance
with Section 1-4-120 or attend a drug awareness, drug education, or
restorative justice program, or any combination thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 11-26-19, p. 11547, § 14)

8-16-065 Social hosting.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

   "Alcoholic liquor" shall have the meaning stated in Section 4-60-010
of the Code.

   "Minor" shall mean a person under the age of 21.

   "Supervising adult" shall mean a person of 21 years of age or older,
who exercises supervisory authority over one or more minors.

   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any supervising adult to host minors
consuming any alcoholic liquor in a person's residence or any land,
building, structure or room owned, occupied or procured by such a person
to be used by an invitee of such a person or an invitee of such person's
child or ward, in a manner that results in the possession or consumption
therein of alcoholic liquor by minors. There shall be a presumption that
an adult who is physically present on the premises where minors are
found to possess or consume alcoholic liquor is a supervising adult. The
prohibition of this section shall not apply to the possession or
consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor in the performance of a
religious service or ceremony, or under the direct supervision and
approval of that minor's parent or guardian in the privacy of a home. A
supervising adult who violates this subsection upon conviction shall be
punished as follows for each offense:

      (i)   incarceration for a term not less than three days, nor more
than six months, under the procedures set forth in Section 1-2-1.1 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, as amended, and the Illinois Code of
Criminal Procedure of 1963, as amended; and /or

      (ii)   a fine of not less than $50.00, nor more than $200.00 for
each offense; and

      (iii)   each minor hosted shall constitute a separate violation of
this subsection.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be liable for any
costs incurred by the city pursuant to Chapter 1-20.

   (d)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, or part of
this ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid
by any final court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 3-29-06, p. 73634, § 2)

8-16-070 Liquor saturated material to children.

   Any person who shall sell, deliver to, or procure for any child under
16 years of age any material saturated with or enclosing any spirituous,
vinous, or fermented liquor shall be fined not less than $20.00 nor more
than $100.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 190-5)

8-16-080 Playing with gaming devices.

   No minor shall play with dice, dominoes, cards, balls, or other
articles used in gaming in any place where intoxicating liquors are sold
or given away, or in any poolroom, billiard hall, cigar store, bowling
alley, or other public store or place.

(Prior code § 190-6)

8-16-090 Firearms for minors.

   No person shall sell, loan, or furnish to any minor any toy gun, toy
pistol, or other toy firearm in which any explosive substance can be
used.

(Prior code § 190-7; Amend Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6)

8-16-095 Possession of etching material and spray can or marker by
underage persons prohibited.

   No person under the age of 18 shall possess within the city any
etching materials, paint in a spray can or any marker containing a fluid
which is not water soluble and has a point, brush, applicator or other
writing surface of three-eighths of an inch or greater. This prohibition
shall not apply to:

   (a)   a child using etching materials, paint or a marker while under
the immediate supervision of his or her parent or legal guardian;

   (b)   a student using etching materials, paint or a marker while
under the immediate supervision of his or her teacher;

   (c)   an employee using etching materials, paint or a marker at the
direction and under the supervision of his or her employer.

(Added Coun. J. 5-20-92, p. 17016; Amend Coun. J. 5-11-05, p. 48079, §
4)

8-16-096 Aiding or assisting underage person in obtaining etching
materials, paint spray cans or markers prohibited.

   No person shall aid, assist or abet a person under the age of 18 in
obtaining possession of etching materials, paint in a spray can or any
marker containing a fluid which is not water soluble and has a point,
brush, applicator or other writing surface of three-eighths of an inch
or greater. This prohibition shall not apply to:

   (a)   a parent or legal guardian assisting and supervising his or her
own child or ward in the use of etching materials, paint or a marker;

   (b)   a teacher assisting and supervising his or her students in the
use of etching materials, paint or a marker;

   (c)   an employer assisting and supervising his or her employee in
the use of etching materials, paint or a marker.

(Added Coun. J. 5-20-92, p. 17016; Amend Coun. J. 5-11-05, p. 48079, §
4)

8-16-100 Exhibiting or employing children.

   No person having the care, custody, or control of any child under the
age of 14 years shall cause or permit any such child to be exhibited,
used, or employed, or shall apprentice or let out, or otherwise dispose
of, any such child to any person for the occupation or purpose of
singing or playing on musical instruments on the public ways, or of
ropewalking or wirewalking, dancing, begging, or peddling, or as a
gymnast, contortionist, rider, or acrobat in any place whatsoever, or
for any obscene, indecent, or immoral exhibition or purpose, or in or
about any business, exhibition, or occupation injurious to the health or
dangerous to the life or limb of such child, or cause, procure, or
encourage any such child to engage therein.

   No person shall take, receive, employ, use, exhibit, or have in
custody any child under the age of 14 years for the purpose of employing
such child in the manner expressly prohibited in this section, and no
person having the care or custody of any child shall wilfully cause or
permit such child to be placed in such a situation that its life or
health may be endangered.

(Prior code § 190-8)

8-16-110 Working in public places.

   It shall be unlawful for any girl under the age of 18 years to
distribute, sell, expose or offer for sale, any newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, gum, or any other merchandise, or to distribute handbills,
circulars, or other articles, or to exercise the trade of a bootblack,
or any other trade or occupation, or to solicit money or other thing of
value, in any public way or other public place in the city. It shall be
unlawful for any person to employ such girl under the age designated
herein, or permit or suffer such girl to be employed at the trade of a
bootblack, or any other trade or occupation, in any public way or other
public place in the city.

   No boy under the age of 14 years shall pursue any of the occupations
mentioned in the above paragraph upon the public ways or other public
places of the city before 5:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. No boy between 14
and 16 years of age shall pursue any of the said occupations upon the
public ways or other public places of the city before 5:00 a.m. or after
8:00 p.m., unless he shall be provided with and have on his person an
employment certificate issued in accordance with the requirements of an
act of the general assembly concerning child labor, approved June 26,
1917, as amended.

   Any girl under the age of 18 years or any boy under the age of 16
years, who shall violate any of the above mentioned provisions of this
section shall be warned by any police officer who shall discover any
violation of this section forthwith to comply with the provisions of the
same and to desist from further violation thereof. Such officer shall
also without delay report such violation to his superior officer, who
shall cause a written notice to be served upon the parent, guardian, or
person in control or charge of such boy or girl, setting forth the
manner in which the section has been violated. In case any girl under
the age of 18 years or any boy under the age of 16 years after such
warning shall again pursue any occupation contrary to the provisions of
this section, he or she shall be subjected to the penalty herein
provided.

   In case any parent, guardian, or person in control or charge of such
boy or girl, who has received notice as provided for herein, shall
knowingly permit such boy or girl again to violate the provisions of
this section, or shall procure or engage such boy or girl after such
notice to pursue an occupation in a manner contrary to the provisions of
this section, such parent, guardian, or person in control or charge of
such boy or girl shall also be subject to the penalty herein provided.

   Any violation of this section, after the warning or notice herein
provided for, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.00.

(Prior code § 190-9)

8-16-120 Begging or soliciting.

   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ or use or to permit the
employment or use of any girl under the age of 18 years, or any boy
under the age of 17 years, for the purpose of solicitation or begging of
money or other valuable thing upon the public ways or public places
within the city, whether such solicitation is for charitable purposes or
any other purpose, or whether such solicitation is conducted on a day
set apart as a so- called tag day or otherwise.

(Prior code § 190-10)

8-16-125 Contributing to delinquency of minor.

   (a)   No person over the age of 18 years having the care, custody or
control of any child under the age of 18 years shall knowingly or
wilfully permit, cause, aid, abet or encourage such child to commit any
act or omission in violation of any law, statute or ordinance of this
city, the County of Cook, the State of Illinois, or the United States,
where the violation of such law, statute or ordinance is punishable by
fine or imprisonment.

   (b)   No person over the age of 18 years not having the care, custody
or control of a child under the age of 18 years shall knowingly or
wilfully cause, aid, abet or encourage such child to commit any act or
omission in violation of any law, statute or ordinance of this city, the
County of Cook, the State of Illinois, or the United States, where the
violation of such law, statute or ordinance is punishable by fine or
imprisonment.

   (c)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $200.00 nor more than $500.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 190-10.1; Added Coun. J. 7-12-90, p. 18084)

8-16-127 Access to the Chicago Public Library by a child sex offender.

   (a)   For purposes of this section:

   "Child Sex Offender" has the same meaning as that set forth in the
Criminal Code of 2012 at 720 ILCS 5/11-9.3(d)(1).

   "Designated Child Area" means that portion or area of a library
reserved for use primarily by persons under the age of 13.

   "Designated Child Program" means any program conducted in a library
directed toward persons under the age of 13.

   "Designated Teen Area" means that portion or area of a library
reserved for use primarily by persons between the ages of 13 and 18.

   "Designated Teen Program" means any program conducted in a library
directed toward persons between the ages of 13 and 18.

   "Library" means the main library and all regional and branch
libraries of the Chicago Public Library, and includes parking lots,
patios, and other outdoor spaces under the control of a Library.

   "Son or Daughter" means a person of less than 13 years of age who is
a biological child, adoptive child, stepchild, foster child, or legal
ward.

   (b)   Except as provided in this section, a Child Sex Offender shall
have access to any Library subject to the same policies, bylaws, terms,
rules, and regulations applicable to all patrons.

   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (d), a Child Sex Offender is
prohibited from entering into and/or remaining in a Designated Child
Area or a Designated Teen Area, and is prohibited from attending a
Designated Child Program or Designated Teen Program, or being present in
the place where a Designated Child Program or Designated Teen Program is
being held.

   (d)   A Child Sex Offender may be present in a Designated Child Area
or attend a Designated Child Program only when accompanied by the Child
Sex Offender's Son or Daughter, provided such Son or Daughter remains in
the immediate area of the Child Sex Offender at all times while the
Child Sex Offender is in the Designated Child Area or attending the
Designated Child Program. This subsection (d) shall not apply to a Child
Sex Offender who engages in conduct creating a risk of harm to others,
or who is otherwise violating any law, statute, ordinance, or Chicago
Public Library or Library policy, bylaw, term, rule, or regulation.

   (e)   The Library board of directors or its designee shall identify
any Designated Child Area or Designated Teen Area, and shall ensure that
each Designated Child Area or Designated Teen Area is prominently marked
with signage uniform across all Libraries identifying it as such. When
identifying a Designated Child Area or Designated Teen Area, the board
of directors or its designee shall ensure that an adequate portion or
area of the Library remains outside the Designated Child Area or
Designated Teen Area to ensure access to the Library by all patrons.

   (f)   The Library board of directors or its designee shall identify
any Designated Child Program or Designated Teen Program as such in any
on-line or printed registration or promotional materials, and shall post
temporary signage uniform across all libraries at the location and for
the duration of that program identifying it as such.

   (g)   Any person who violates subsection (c) or (d) of this section
shall be subject to arrest and immediate removal from the Library, and a
fine of not less than $500.00 or more than $1,000.00 for each offense.
Such violation may also result in expulsion from all Library facilities
and suspension of Library privileges.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-16, p. 38277, § 3)

8-16-130 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not less than
$5.00 nor more than $100.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 190-11)

CHAPTER 8-20
WEAPONS

8-20-010   Definitions.

Article II. Possession of Firearms

8-20-020   Unlawful possession of a firearm.

8-20-030   Reserved.

8-20-035   Reserved.

8-20-040   Reserved.

8-20-050   Firearms – Protection of minors.

8-20-060   Possession of a laser sight accessory, firearm silencer or
muffler.

8-20-070   Unlawful firearm, laser sight accessory, or firearm silencer
or muffler in a motor vehicle – Impoundment.

8-20-075   Possession of assault weapons.

8-20-080   Reserved.

8-20-085   High capacity magazines and certain tubular magazine
extensions – Sale and possession prohibited – Exceptions.

8-20-090   Limitation on purchase of handguns.

8-20-100   Sale or transfer of firearms at gun shows prohibited.

Article III. Reserved

8-20-110   Reserved.

8-20-120   Reserved.

8-20-130   Reserved.

8-20-140   Reserved.

8-20-145   Reserved.

8-20-150   Reserved.

8-20-160   Reserved.

8-20-170   Reserved.

8-20-180   Reserved.

8-20-185   Reserved.

8-20-190   Reserved.

8-20-200   Reserved.

8-20-205   Reserved.

8-20-210   Reserved.

Article IV. Miscellaneous Provisions

8-20-220   Reserved.

8-20-230   Reserved.

8-20-240   Reserved.

8-20-250   Seizure and forfeiture of firearms, ammunition, laser sight
accessories and firearm silencers and mufflers – Authority and
destruction.

8-20-260   Rules and regulations.

8-20-270   Acquisition or possession prohibited by law.

8-20-280   Reporting of destruction, transfer, loss or theft of
firearms.

8-20-290   Severability.

Article V. Violation of Chapter Provisions

8-20-300   Violation – Penalty.

8-20-010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter the following terms shall apply:

   "The Act" means the Illinois Firearm Owners Identification Card Act,
430 ILCS 65/1 et seq., as amended.

   "Ammunition" means any self-contained cartridge or shotgun shell, by
whatever name known, which is designed to be used or adaptable to use in
a firearm; excluding however:

      (1)   any ammunition used exclusively for line-throwing,
signaling, or safety and required or recommended by the United States
Coast Guard; or

      (2)   any ammunition designed exclusively for use with a stud or
rivet driver or other similar industrial ammunition.

   "Antique firearm" has the same meaning ascribed to that term in 18
U.S.C. § 921(a)(16).

   "Assault weapon" means any of the following, regardless of the
caliber of ammunition accepted:

      (a)   (1)   A semiautomatic rifle that has the ability to accept a
detachable magazine and has one or more of the following:

            (A)   a folding, telescoping or detachable stock;

            (B)   a handgun grip;

            (C)   a forward grip;

            (D)   a threaded barrel;

            (E)   a grenade, flare or rocket launcher; or

            (F)   a barrel shroud.

         (2)   A semiautomatic rifle that has a fixed magazine with the
capacity to accept more than 10 rounds, except for an attached tubular
device designed to accept, and capable of operating only with, .22
caliber rimfire ammunition.

         (3)   A semiautomatic version of an automatic rifle.

         (4)   Any part, combination of parts, component, device,
attachment, or accessory, including but not limited to a bump stock,
that is designed or functions to accelerate the rate of fire of a
semiautomatic rifle but not convert the semiautomatic rifle into a
machine gun.

         (5)   A semiautomatic shotgun that has one or more of the
following:

            (A)   a folding, telescoping or detachable stock;

            (B)   a handgun grip;

            (C)   a fixed magazine with the capacity to accept more than
5 rounds;

            (D)   a forward grip; or

            (E)   a grenade, flare or rocket launcher.

         (6)   A semiautomatic handgun that has the ability to accept a
detachable magazine and has one or more of the following:

            (A)   the capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some
location outside of the handgun grip;

            (B)   a threaded barrel;

            (C)   a barrel shroud; or

            (D)   a second handgun grip.

         (7)   A semiautomatic version of an automatic handgun.

         (8)   A semiautomatic handgun with a fixed magazine that has
the capacity to accept more than 15 rounds.

         (9)   A machine gun.

         (10)   All of the following rifles, including any copies or
duplicates thereof with the capability of any such weapon:

            (A)   All AK types, including the following:

               (i)   AK, AK47, AK47S, AK-74, AKM, AKS, ARM, MAK90, MISR,
NHM90. NHM91, Rock River Arms LAR-47, SA85, SA93, Vector Arms AK-47,
VEPR, WASR-10, and WUM

               (ii)   IZHMASH Saiga AK

               (iii)   MAADI AK47 and ARM

               (iv)   Norinco 56S, 56S2, 84S, and 86S

               (v)   Poly Technologies AK47 and AKS.

            (B)   All AR types, including the following:

               (i)   AR-10

               (ii)   AR-15

               (iii)   Armalite M15 22LR Carbine

               (iv)   Armalite M15-T

               (v)   Barrett REC7

               (vi)   Beretta AR-70

               (vii)   Bushmaster ACR

               (viii)   Bushmaster Carbon 15

               (ix)   Bushmaster MOE series

               (x)   Bushmaster XM15

               (xi)   Colt Match Target Rifles

               (xii)   DoubleStar AR rifles

               (xiii)   DPMS Tactical Rifles

               (xiv)   Heckler & Koch MR556

               (xv)   Olympic Arms

               (xvi)   Remington R-15 rifles

               (xvii)   Rock River Arms LAR-15

               (xviii)   Sig Sauer SIG516 rifles

               (xix)   Smith & Wesson M&P15 rifles

               (xx)   Stag Arms AR rifles

               (xxi)   Sturm, Ruger & Co. SR556 rifles.

            (C)   Barrett M107A1.

            (D)   Barrett M82A1.

            (E)   Beretta CX4 Storm.

            (F)   Calico Liberty Series.

            (G)   CETME Sporter.

            (H)   Daewoo K-1. K-2, Max 1, Max 2, AR 100. and AR 110PC.

            (I)   Fabrique Nationale/FN Herstal FAL, LAR, 22 FNC, 308
Match, L1A1 Sporter, PS90, SCAR, and FS2000.

            (J)   Feather Industries AT-9.

            (K)   Galil Model AR and Model ARM.

            (L)   Hi-Point Carbine.

            (M)   HK-91, HK-93, HK-94, HK-PSG-1, and HK USC.

            (N)   Kel-Tec Sub-2000, SU-16, and RFB.

            (O)   SIG AMT, SIG PE-57, Sig Sauer SG 550, and Sig Sauer SG
551.

            (P)   Springfield Armory SAR-48.

            (Q)   Steyr AUG.

            (R)   Sturm, Ruger Mini-14 Tactical Rife M-14/20CF.

            (S)   All Thompson rifles, including the following:

               (i)   Thompson M1SB

               (ii)   Thompson T1100D

               (iii)   Thompson T150D

               (iv)   Thompson T1B

               (v)   Thompson T1B100D

               (vi)   Thompson T1B50D

               (vii)   Thompson T1BSB

               (viii)   Thompson T1-C

               (ix)   Thompson T1D

               (x)   Thompson T1SB

               (xi)   Thompson T5

               (xii)   Thompson T5100D

                (xiii)   Thompson TM1

               (xiv)   Thompson TM1C.

            (T)   UMAREX UZI Rifle.

            (U)   UZI Mini Carbine, UZI Model A Carbine, and UZI Model B
Carbine.

            (V)   Valmet M62S, M71S, and M78.

            (W)   Vector Arms UZI Type.

            (X)   Weaver Arms Nighthawk.

            (Y)   Wilkinson Arms Linda Carbine.

         (11)   All of the following handguns, including any copies or
duplicates thereof with the capability of any such weapon:

            (A)   All AK-47 types, including the following:

               (i)   Centurion 39 AK handgun

               (ii)   Draco AK-47 handgun

               (iii)   HCR AK-47 handgun

               (iv)   IO, Inc. Hellpup AK-47 handgun

               (v)   Krinkov handgun

               (vi)   Mini Draco AK-47 handgun

               (vii)   Yugo Krebs Krink handgun.

            (B)   All AR-15 types, including the following:

               (i)   American Spirit AR-15 handgun

               (ii)   Bushmaster Carbon 15 handgun

               (iii)   DoubleStar Corporation AR handgun

               (iv)   DPMS AR-15 handgun

               (v)   Olympic Arms AR-15 handgun

               (vi)   Rock River Arms LAR 15 handgun.

            (C)   Calico Liberty handguns.

            (D)   PSA SA58 PKP FAL handgun.

            (E)   Encom MP-9 and MP-45.

            (F)   Heckler & Koch model SP-89 handgun.

            (G)   Intratec AB-10, TEC-22 Scorpion, TEC-9, and TEC-DC9.

            (H)   Kel-Tec PLR 16 handgun.

            (I)   The following MAC types:

               (i)   MAC-10

               (ii)   MAC-11

               (iii)   Masterpiece Arms MPA A930 Mini Pistol, MPA460
Pistol. MPA Tactical Pistol, and MPA Mini Tactical Pistol

               (iv)   Military Armament Corp. Ingram M-11

               (v)   Velocity Arms VMAC.

            (J)   Sig Sauer P556 handgun.

            (K)   Sites Spectre.

            (L)   All Thompson types, including the following:

               (i)   Thompson TA510D

               (ii)   Thompson TA5.

            (M)   All UZI types, including Micro-UZI.

         (12)   All of the following shotguns, including any copies or
duplicates thereof with the capability of any such weapon:

            (A)   Franchi LAW-12 and SPAS 12.

            (B)   All IZHMASH Saiga 12 types, including the following:

               (i)   IZHMASH Saiga 12

               (ii)    IZHMASH Saiga 12S

               (iii)   IZHMASH Saiga 12S EXP-01

               (iv)   IZHMASH Saiga 12K

               (v)    IZHMASH Saiga 12K-030

               (vi)   IZHMASH Saiga 12K-040 Taktika.

            (C)   Streetsweeper.

            (D)   Striker 12.

         (13)   All belt-fed semiautomatic firearms, including TNW M2HB.

         (14)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm described
in subparagraphs (1) through (13) can be assembled.

         (15)   The frame or receiver of a rifle or shotgun described in
subparagraph (1), (2), (5), (9), (10), (12), (13), or (18).

         (16)   A sawed-off shotgun.

         (17)   A short-barrel rifle.

         (18)   A .50 caliber rifle.

      (b)   An "assault weapon" shall not include any firearm that:

         (1)   is manually operated by bolt, pump, lever, or slide
action:

         (2)   has been rendered permanently inoperable. "Permanently
inoperable" means a firearm which is incapable of discharging a
projectile by means of an explosive and incapable of being restored to a
firing condition; or

         (3)   is an antique firearm.

      (c)   For purposes of this definition of "assault weapon" the
following terms apply:

         (1)   "barrel shroud" means a shroud that is attached to, or
partially or completely encircles, the barrel of a firearm so that the
shroud protects the user of the firearm from heat generated by the
barrel. The term does not include (i) a slide that partially or
completely encloses the barrel; or (ii) an extension of the stock along
the bottom of the barrel which does not completely or substantially
encircle the barrel.

         (2)   "detachable magazine" means an ammunition feeding device
that can be removed from a firearm without disassembly of the firearm
action.

         (3)   "fixed magazine" means an ammunition feeding device that
is permanently fixed to the firearm in such a manner that it cannot be
removed without disassembly of the firearm.

         (4)   "folding, telescoping, or detachable stock" means a stock
that folds, telescopes, detaches or otherwise operates to reduce the
length, size, or any other dimension, or otherwise to enhance the
concealability, of a firearm.

         (5)   "forward grip" means a grip located forward of the
trigger that functions as a handgun grip.

         (6)   "rocket" means any simple or complex tubelike device
containing combustibles that on being ignited liberate gases whose
action propels the device through the air and has a propellant charge of
not more than 4 ounces.

         (7)   "grenade, flare or rocket launcher" means an attachment
for use on a firearm that is designed to propel a grenade, flare,
rocket, or other similar device.

         (8)   "handgun grip" means a grip, a thumbhole stock, or any
other part, feature or characteristic that can function as a grip.

         (9)   "threaded barrel" means a feature or characteristic that
is designed to allow for the attachment of a device such as a firearm
silencer or a flash suppressor.

         (10)   "belt-fed semiautomatic firearm" means any repeating
firearm that:

               (i)   utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing
cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next
round;

               (ii)   requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire
each cartridge; and

               (iii)   has the capacity to accept a belt ammunition
feeding device.

         (11)   ".50 caliber rifle" means a centerfire rifle capable of
firing a .50 caliber cartridge. The term does not include any antique
firearm, any shotgun including a shotgun that has a rifle barrel, or any
muzzle-loader which uses black powder for hunting or historical
re-enactments.

         (12)   ".50 caliber cartridge" means a fixed cartridge in .50
BMG caliber, either by designation or actual measurement, that is
capable of being fired from a centerfire rifle. ".50 caliber cartridge"
does not include any memorabilia or display item that is filled with a
permanent inert substance or that is otherwise permanently altered in a
manner that prevents ready modification for use as live ammunition or
shotgun ammunition with a caliber measurement that is equal to or
greater than .50 caliber.

   "Corrections officer" means wardens, superintendents and keepers of
prisons, penitentiaries, jails and other institutions for the detention
of persons accused or convicted of an offense.

   "Department" means the department of police.

   "Duty-related firearm" shall mean any firearm which is authorized by
any law enforcement agency or employer to be utilized by their personnel
in the performance of their official duties.

   "Firearm" means any device, by whatever name known, which is designed
or restored to expel a projectile or projectiles by the action of any
explosive, expansion of gas or escape of gas. Provided, that such term
shall not include:

      (1)   any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paint ball gun or B-B gun
which either expels a single globular projectile not exceeding .18 inch
in diameter and which has a maximum muzzle velocity of less than 700
feet per second or breakable paint balls containing washable marking
colors;

      (2)   any device used exclusively for line-throwing, signaling, or
safety and required or recommended by the United States Coast Guard; or

      (3)   any device used exclusively for firing explosives, rivets,
stud cartridges, or any similar industrial ammunition.

   "Firearm case" means any firearm case, carrying box, shipping box or
other similar container that is designed for the safe transportation of
the firearm.

   "FOID" means the Firearm Owner's Identification Card issued pursuant
to the Act.

   "High capacity magazine" means a magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or
similar device, including any such device joined or coupled with another
in any manner, that has an overall capacity of more than 15 rounds of
ammunition. A "high capacity magazine" does not include an attached
tubular device to accept, and capable of operating only with, .22
caliber rimfire ammunition.

   "Laser sight accessory" means a laser sighting device which is either
integrated into a firearm or capable of being attached to a firearm.

   "Licensed shooting range facility" means a shooting range facility
that is duly licensed pursuant to Chapter 4-151.

   "Licensee of a licensed shooting range facility" or "licensee" means
any person issued a shooting range facility license under Chapter 4-151.

   "Machine gun" means any firearm which can fire multiple rounds of
ammunition by a single function of the firing device or one press of the
trigger.

   "Peace officer" means any person who by virtue of his office or
public employment is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order
or make arrests for offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses
or is limited to specific offenses.

   "Sawed-off shotgun" means a shotgun having one or more barrels less
than 18 inches in length and any weapon made from a shotgun, whether by
alteration, modification or otherwise, if such weapon, as modified, has
an overall length of less than 26 inches.

   "Short-barreled rifle" means a rifle having one or more barrels less
than 16 inches in length, and any weapon made from a rifle, whether by
alteration, modification, or otherwise, if such weapon, as modified, has
an overall length of less than 26 inches.

   "Superintendent" means the superintendent of the department or his
designated representative.

   "Safety mechanism" means a design adaption or nondetachable accessory
that lessens the likelihood of unanticipated use of the handgun.

   "Trigger lock" means a device that when locked in place by means of a
key, prevents a potential user from pulling the trigger of the firearm
without first removing the trigger lock by use of the trigger lock's
key.

   "Manager", "Employee", "Range Master", "CCL", "Shooting range patron"
and "Shooting range facility" have the meaning ascribed to those terms
in Section 4-151-010.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3073, §
4; Amend Coun. J. 1-17-13, p. 45370, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p.
57262, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
3-28-18, p. 73485, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p. 88803, § 16)

ARTICLE II. POSSESSION OF FIREARMS (8-20-020 et seq.))

8-20-020 Unlawful possession of a firearm.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess a
firearm in violation of any applicable state or federal law.

   (b)   This section shall not apply to concealed carry licensees under
the Firearm Concealed Carry Act (430 ILCS 66/1, et seq.) and holders of
a FOID card under the Firearm Owners Identification Card Act (430 ILCS
65/0.01, et seq.).

   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d), in addition to
the sanctions provided in Sections 8-20-070 and 8-20-250, any person who
violates this section shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than
$5,000, or be incarcerated for not less than 20 days nor more than 90
days, or both. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.

   (d)   In addition to the sanctions provided in Sections 8-20-070 and
8-20-250, any person who: (i) violates this section for a second or
subsequent time; or (ii) violates this section and has a previous
weapons conviction; or (iii) carries or possesses an assault weapon, a
high capacity magazine, a laser sight accessory, or a firearm silencer
or muffler as defined in Section 8-20-010, in violation of this section,
shall be fined not less than $10,000 nor more than $20,000, or be
incarcerated for not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days, or both.
Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 12-14-22, p. 58876, § 1)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed former §
8-20-020, which pertained to unlawful possession of handguns.

8-20-030 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-030,
which pertained to unlawful possession of long guns.

8-20-035 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-035,
which pertained to unlawful possession of unregisterable firearms.

8-20-040 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-040,
which pertained to firearms kept or maintained in a home.

8-20-050 Firearms – Protection of minors.

   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or possess any firearm or
ammunition in his home if the person knows or has reason to believe that
a minor under the age of 18 years is likely to gain access to the
firearm or ammunition, unless:

      (1)   the person is physically present in the home and the firearm
is either being held by the person or is physically secured on the
person's body;

      (2)   the firearm is secured by a trigger lock or other mechanism,
other than the firearm safety mechanism, designed to render a firearm
temporarily inoperable; or

      (3)   the firearm and ammunition are placed in a securely locked
box or container.

   (b)   No person shall be punished for a violation of this section
under the following circumstances:

      (1)   if the minor gains access to the firearm and uses it in a
lawful act of self-defense or defense of another; or

      (2)   if the minor gains access to the firearm because of an
unlawful entry of the premises by the minor or another person.

   The provisions of this section shall not apply to peace officers.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4)

8-20-060 Possession of a laser sight accessory, firearm silencer or
muffler.

   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to carry, possess, display for
sale, sell or otherwise transfer any laser sight accessory, or a firearm
silencer or muffler.

   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any members
of the armed forces of the United States, or the organized militia of
this or any other state, or peace officers, to the extent that any such
person is otherwise authorized to acquire or possess a laser sight
accessory, or firearm silencer or muffler, and is acting within the
scope of his duties.

   (c)   Any laser sight accessory, or firearm silencer or muffler,
carried, possessed, displayed or sold in violation of this section is
hereby declared to be contraband and shall be seized by and forfeited to
the city.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4)

8-20-070 Unlawful firearm, laser sight accessory, or firearm silencer or
muffler in a motor vehicle – Impoundment.

   (a)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle that contains: (i) a
firearm that is carried or possessed in violation of any applicable
state or federal law other than the expiration of a FOID card or
concealed carry license of a person who otherwise remains qualified
under Illinois law to lawfully possess or carry firearms; or (ii) an
assault weapon; or (iii) a laser sight accessory; or (iv) a firearm
silencer or muffler, shall be liable to the City for an administrative
penalty of $2,000 plus any towing and storage fees applicable under
Section 9-92-080. Any such vehicle shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment pursuant to this section.

   (b)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section,
the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility controlled by the City or its agents. Before or at the time the
vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any person identifying
himself as the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation
or the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation, if there is such person, of the fact of the
seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request a vehicle
impoundment hearing to be conducted under Section 2-14-132 of this Code
by serving such person with a copy of the vehicle impoundment seizure
report.

   (c)   Section 2-14-132 shall apply whenever a motor vehicle is seized
and impounded pursuant to this section.

   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate any
firearm to the extent that such regulation is preempted.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 11-16-11, p.
14596, Art. I, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57262, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 7-22-20, p. 18957, § 5)

8-20-075 Possession of assault weapons.

   (a)   It shall be unlawful for a person to import, sell, manufacture,
transfer, or possess an assault weapon.

   (b)   This section shall not apply to corrections officers, members
of the armed forces of the United States, or the organized militia of
this or any other state, and peace officers, to the extent that any such
person is otherwise authorized to acquire or possess assault weapons,
and is acting within the scope of his duties, or to any person while
engaged in the manufacturing, transportation or sale of assault weapons
to people authorized to possess them under this section.

   (c)   Notwithstanding subsection (a):

      (1)   Any person who lawfully possesses a firearm that on the
effective date of this section became prohibited as being an assault
weapon has 60 days after the effective date of this section to legally
dispose of, or remove from the city, the assault weapon.

      (2)   Any person who is a qualified retired law enforcement
officer, as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 926C, and who lawfully
possessed a duty-related assault weapon at the time of separation from
active duty in law enforcement, shall legally dispose of, or remove from
the city, the assault weapon within 60 days of such separation.

   (d)   Any assault weapon carried, possessed, displayed, sold or
otherwise transferred in violation of this section is hereby declared to
be contraband and shall be seized by and forfeited to the city.

(Added Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57262, § 1)

8-20-080 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-080,
which pertained to possession of ammunition.

8-20-085 High capacity magazines and certain tubular magazine extensions
– Sale and possession prohibited – Exceptions.

   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to carry, possess, sell, offer or
display for sale, or otherwise transfer any high capacity magazine or
tubular magazine extension for a shotgun. This section shall not apply
to corrections officers, members of the armed forces of the United
States, or the organized militia of this or any other state, and peace
officers, to the extent that any such person is otherwise authorized to
acquire or possess a high capacity magazine or tubular magazine
extension for a shotgun, and is acting within the scope of his duties,
or to any person while in the manufacturing, transportation or sale of
high capacity magazines or tubular magazine extension for a shotgun to
people authorized to possess them under this section.

   (b)   Any high capacity magazine or tubular magazine extension for a
shotgun carried, possessed, displayed, sold or otherwise transferred in
violation of this section is hereby declared to be contraband and shall
be seized by and forfeited to the city.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57262,
§ 1)

8-20-090 Limitation on purchase of handguns.

   (a)   No person shall purchase more than one handgun within any
30-day period; provided that this section shall not apply to the
purchase of a handgun by:

      (1)   a peace officer;

      (2)   a collector issued a federal firearm collector's license who
is purchasing an antique, curio or relic firearm;

      (3)   a person whose handgun was stolen or lost and the person
timely reported the theft or loss to the appropriate local law
enforcement official; or

      (4)   a person returning a handgun purchased within the thirty-day
period because the handgun is defective or damaged and the person is
seeking a replacement handgun.

   (b)   No person shall sell or transfer any firearm to a person he
knows to be intoxicated.

(Added Coun. J. 6-25-14, p. 83727, § 8)

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed a former §
8-20-090, which pertained to interstate transportation of firearms.

8-20-100 Sale or transfer of firearms at gun shows prohibited.

   No firearm shall be sold or otherwise transferred by any person at a
gun show. For purposes of this subsection, "gun show" means a temporary
exhibit or gathering where firearms or ammunition are sold, leased, or
otherwise transferred.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3073, §
4; Amend Coun. J. 1-17-13, p. 45370, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p.
59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 6-25-14, p. 83727, § 8)

ARTICLE III. RESERVED. (8-20-110 et seq.)

8-20-110 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-110,
which pertained to a required CFP.

8-20-120 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-120,
which pertained to CFP application.

8-20-130 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-130,
which pertained to CFP card fee and expiration.

8-20-140 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-140,
which pertained to a firearm registration certificate.

8-20-145 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-145,
which pertained to registration certificate expiration.

8-20-150 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-150,
which pertained to application fees.

8-20-160 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-160,
which pertained to restrictions on issuance of registration
certificates.

8-20-170 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57262, § 1, repealed § 8-20-170,
which pertained to unregisterable firearms.

8-20-180 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-180,
which pertained to CFP and registration certificate.

8-20-185 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-185,
which pertained to additional duties.

8-20-190 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-190,
which pertained to denials and revocations.

8-20-200 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-200,
which pertained to a procedure for denial.

8-20-205 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-205,
which pertained to a procedure for revocation.

8-20-210 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-210,
which pertained to automatic revocation of registration certificates.

ARTICLE IV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. (8-20-220 et seq.)

8-20-220 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-220,
which pertained to false information, forgery, and alteration.

8-20-230 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-20-230,
which pertained to notice.

8-20-240 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-240-00,
which pertained to posting of unsafe handguns.

8-20-250 Seizure and forfeiture of firearms, ammunition, laser sight
accessories and firearm silencers and mufflers – Authority and
destruction.

   The superintendent has the authority to seize any firearm, assault
weapon, ammunition, laser sight accessories, or firearm silencer or
muffler carried or possessed in violation of this chapter or any
applicable state or federal law. Such items are hereby declared
contraband and shall be seized by and forfeited to the city.

   Whenever any firearm, ammunition, laser sight accessories, or firearm
silencer or muffler is surrendered or forfeited pursuant to the terms of
this chapter, or any applicable state or federal law, the superintendent
shall ascertain whether such firearm, ammunition, assault weapon, laser
sight accessories, or firearm silencer or muffler is needed as evidence
in any matter. All such items which are not required for evidence shall
be destroyed at the direction of the superintendent; provided that those
firearms and ammunition that the superintendent shall deem to be of use
to the department may be retained for the use of the department. A
record of the date and method of destruction and an inventory of the
firearm or ammunition so destroyed shall be maintained.

   Nothing in this section shall be construed to regulate any firearm or
ammunition to the extent that such regulation is preempted.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57262,
§ 1)

8-20-260 Rules and regulations.

   The superintendent has the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations for the implementation of this chapter and to prescribe all
forms and the information required. All rules and regulations
promulgated by the superintendent pursuant to this chapter shall be
posted on the department's web site.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4)

8-20-270 Acquisition or possession prohibited by law.

   Nothing in this chapter shall make lawful the acquisition or
possession of firearms or ammunition which is otherwise prohibited by
law.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4)

8-20-280 Reporting of destruction, transfer, loss or theft of firearms.

   (a)   Every person who possesses a firearm within the city shall, in
a manner prescribed by the superintendent:

      (1)   notify the department of the destruction, loss or theft of
the firearm within 48 hours of when the person knows, or should have
known, of such destruction, loss or theft; or

      (2)   notify the department of the sale, transfer, inheritance or
other disposition of the firearm within 48 hours of such disposition.

   (b)   Compliance with this section shall be in addition to any other
reporting requirements required by any local, state or federal law or
regulation pertaining to lost, stolen, sold or otherwise transferred
firearms.

(Added Coun. J. 2-13-13, p. 46844, § 1)

Editor's note– Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3073, § 4, repealed a former §
8-20-280, which prohibited shooting galleries and target ranges.

8-20-290 Severability.

   If any provision or term of this chapter, or any application thereof,
is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect other applications of
the provisions or terms of this chapter which reasonably can be given
effect without the invalid provision or term for the application
thereof.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4)

ARTICLE V. VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS (8-20-300 et seq.)

8-20-300 Violation – Penalty.

   (a)   Unless the enhanced penalty imposed by subsection 8-4-350(b)(2)
or subsection 8-4-355(b)(2) of this Code applies, any person who
violates section 8-20-060 shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 nor
more than $5000.00 and be incarcerated for a term not less than 20 days
nor more than 90 days.

   Unless the enhanced penalty imposed by subsection 8-4-350(b)(1)
subsection 8-4-355(b)(1) of this Code applies, any person who violates
section 8-20-075, or 8-20-085, or 8-20-100 shall be fined not less than
$1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00 and be incarcerated for a term of not
less than 90 days nor more than 180 days.

    Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.

   (b)   Unless another fine or penalty is specifically provided, any
person who violates any provision of this chapter, or any rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, shall for the first offense, be fined
not less than $1,000.00, nor more than $5,000.00, or be incarcerated for
not less than 20 days nor more than 90 days, or both. Any subsequent
conviction for a violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $5,000.00 and not more than $10,000.00, and by
incarceration for a term of not less than 30 days, nor more than six
months. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.

   (c)   Reserved.

   (d)   Upon the determination that a person has violated any provision
of this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, the
superintendent may institute an administrative adjudication proceeding
with the department of administrative hearings by forwarding a copy of a
notice of violation or a notice of hearing, which has been properly
served, to the department of administrative hearings.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 4; Amend Coun. J. 2-13-13, p. 46844,
§ 1; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57257, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p.
57262, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J.
9-11-13, p. 59905, § 2)

CHAPTER 8-24
FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS

8-24-005   Definitions.

8-24-010   Discharging cannons.

8-24-020   Sale or possession of deadly weapons.

8-24-021   Sale, display and use of utility knives.

8-24-025   Reserved.

8-24-026   Reserved.

8-24-027   Reserved.

8-24-030   Sale prohibited – Confiscation.

8-24-040   Discharging toy firearms; Replica air guns.

8-24-045   Noxious gas or liquid.

8-24-050   Hunting.

8-24-060   Violation – Penalty.

8-24-005 Definitions.

   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply:

   "Ballistic knife" means a knife with a detachable blade that can be
expelled from the handle or frame as a projectile commonly propelled by
a spring-operated mechanism, a coil spring, elastic material or
compressed gas.

   "Corrections officers," "firearm,""peace officer, "shooting range
patron" and "licensed shooting range facility" have the meaning ascribed
to those terms in section 8-20-010.

   "Switchblade knife" means any knife with a blade that opens
automatically by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other
device in the handle of the knife and commonly referred to as a
switchblade knife.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3073, §
5; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3)

8-24-010 Discharging cannons.

   No cannon or piece of artillery shall be discharged or fired off in
any public way or other public place within the city, except upon the
express permission of the city council.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-29; Amend Coun. J. 7-7-92, p. 19196; Amend Coun. J.
7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 7-6-11, p. 3073, § 5; Amend Coun.
J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3)

8-24-020 Sale or possession of deadly weapons.

   (a)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, keep, possess, purchase,
loan or give to any person any bludgeon, blackjack, slung shot,
sandclub, sandbag, metal knuckles, or other knuckle weapon regardless of
its composition, throwing star, switchblade knife or ballistic knife;
provided that this subsection shall not apply to the purchase,
possession or carrying of a black- jack or slung shot by a peace
officer.

   (b)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, loan or give to any
person 18 years of age or under any type or kind of knife with a blade
which is two inches in length or longer.

   (c)   No person 18 years of age or under shall carry, possess or
conceal on or about his person, any knife, the blade of which is two
inches in length or longer.

   (d)   No person shall carry or possess with intent to use unlawfully
against another, or carry in a threatening or menacing manner, without
authority of law, a dagger, billy, dangerous knife, razor, broken bottle
or other piece or glass, stun gun, taser, or other dangerous or deadly
weapon of like character.

   (e)   No person shall carry on or about his person or in any vehicle,
a tear gas gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid
gas or substance, other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious
liquid gas or substance designed solely for personal defense carried by
a person 18 years of age or older; provided that this subsection shall
not apply to any person listed in section 5/24-2(a)(1)-(14) of the
Criminal Code, 720 ILCS 5/24-2(a).

   (f)   No person shall carry concealed on or about his person a
dagger, any knife with a blade more than two and one-half inches in
length, or other dangerous weapon. Provided, however, that this
provision shall not apply to the following officers while engaged in the
discharge of their official duties: sheriffs, peace officers, and
corrections officers; nor to the following employees or agents while
engaged in the discharge of the duties of their employment: conductors,
baggagemen, messengers, drivers, watchmen, special agents and policemen
employed by railroads or express companies; nor to persons lawfully
summoned by an officer to assist in making arrests or preserving the
peace, while so engaged in assisting such officer.

   (g)   Unless the enhanced penalty imposed by subsection 8-4-350(b)(3)
or subsection 8-4-355(b)(3) of this Code applies, any person violating
this section shall be fined $200.00 for each offense, or shall be
punished by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.

   (h)   Any weapons used in violation of this section shall be
forfeited to the city.

(Prior code § 193-30; Amend Coun. J. 9-9-09, p. 70526, § 1; Amend Coun.
J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6; Amend Coun. J. 7-17-13, p. 57257, § 3; Amend
Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59905, § 3)

8-24-021 Sale, display and use of utility knives.

   (a)   As used in this section, a "utility knife" is a knife
consisting of a grip and single-edged sharp blade of the type typically
used to cut such resistant surfaces as rugs, cardboard boxes, linoleum
flooring and the like.

   (b)   No person shall display or offer for sale any utility knife
except by placing the knife either (1) in an area immediately accessible
only to an employee of the establishment, and beyond the reach of any
customer less than seven feet tall; or (2) in a locked display cabinet,
which can only be opened by an employee of the establishment.

   (c)   No person under the age of 18 shall carry a utility knife on
his person, or in the passenger compartment of a motor vehicle. This
prohibition shall not apply to a minor using a utility knife for a
lawful purpose (1) in his residence, under the immediate supervision of
his parent or legal guardian; or (2) in a classroom, at the direction
and under the immediate supervision of his teacher; or (3) in his place
of lawful employment, at the direction and under the immediate
supervision of his adult employer or an adult supervisor. For purpose of
clause (3) of this subsection (c), "place of employment" includes an
employer's motor vehicle used to transport the employer's tools and
equipment, as well as a site where the employer is performing any lawful
work.

   (d)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, give, deliver or offer a
utility knife to a person under the age of 18. The prohibition on
giving, offering or delivery of a utility knife shall not apply to (1) a
parent or legal guardian who gives a utility knife to his minor or ward
in the family residence for a lawful use, to be performed within the
residence at the direction and under the immediate supervision of parent
or legal guardian; or (2) a teacher who gives a utility knife to a minor
student, or who allows or directs a minor student to take possession of
a utility knife, in a classroom for a lawful use, to be performed in the
classroom at the direction and under the immediate supervision of the
teacher; or (3) to an adult employer, who gives a utility knife to a
minor employee, or who allows or directs a minor employee to take
possession of a utility knife, in the place of lawful employment, at the
direction and under the immediate supervision of the adult employer or
an adult supervisor. For purposes of clause (3) of this subsection (d),
"place of employment" includes an employer's motor vehicle used to
transport the employer's tools and equipment, as well as a site where
the employer is performing any lawful work.

   (e)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00.

(Added Coun. J. 9-10-97, p. 51559; Amend Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6)

8-24-025 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6, repealed § 8-24-025,
which pertained to the sale of assault weapons and ammunition.

8-24-026 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 6, repealed § 8-24-026,
which pertained to the sale of fragmenting bullets and metal piercing
bullets.

8-24-027 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 7, repealed § 8-24-027,
which pertained to disguised firearms.

8-24-030 Sale prohibited – Confiscation.

   No person shall sell, offer for sale, manufacture, purchase, possess
or carry within the city any weapon or instrument associated with
martial arts combat, including but not limited to throwing darts, bolts,
Chinese stars, Nun-chako sticks, and wristbands or belts with sharpened
or abrasive studs. Any person found violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined $200.00 for each offense, or shall be punished by
imprisonment for a period of six months, or shall receive both such fine
and imprisonment.

   In addition to all other penalties, weapons and instruments used in
violation of this section shall be forfeited to and confiscated by the
city.

(Prior code § 193-30.1; Added Coun. J. 4-23-86, p. 29530)

8-24-040 Discharging toy firearms; Replica air guns.

   (a)   Except as provided in subsection (c) below, no person shall at
any time discharge or set off anywhere within the city, or have in his
possession for such purpose any toy firearm, air rifle, or toy cannon,
that discharges projectiles either by air, spring, explosive, substance,
or any other force.

   (b)   Except as provided in subsection (c) below, no person shall
possess or discharge a replica air gun in the city of Chicago.

   (c)   The use or possession of an air gun or replica air gun is
permitted if the air gun or replica air gun is in the possession and
control of a carnival and is offered for use to carnival customers on a
temporary basis. For purposes of this section, "carnival" means an
enterprise which offers amusement or entertainment to the public by
means of one or more amusement attractions or amusement rides.

   (d)   As used in this section, the term "replica air gun" shall be
defined as provided in Section 4-144-145 of the code.

   (e)   Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (b) of
this section, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than
$500.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense, or imprisoned for a
period not to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment. As
an alternative to, or in addition to, any such fine, the violator may be
made to perform community service. Whenever a person under the age of 18
is ordered to pay a fine or perform community service for a violation of
this subsection (b), the parent or guardian having legal custody or
control of the person may be ordered to pay the fine instead of, or
perform the community service in conjunction with, the person.

(Prior code § 193-31; Amend Coun. J. 10-4-06, p. 87431, § 2; Amend Coun.
J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3)

8-24-045 Noxious gas or liquid.

   (a)   No person shall use any device to discharge a noxious gas or
liquid in an enclosed room in any Group A occupancy, classified in
accordance with Chapter 14B-3 of this Code, or in an enclosed room in
any restaurant, bar or tavern that is a Group B or M occupancy as
defined in that chapter, if more than 20 persons are present in that
room, unless the person is a peace officer, as defined in Section
8-20-010 of this Code, engaged in law enforcement activity. As used in
this section, "noxious gas or liquid" means mace, pepper spray or any
other substance that is intended or designed to cause irritation to the
eyes, nose or mouth, or to cause nausea.

   (b)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
that is punishable by a fine $500.00, or 30 days imprisonment, or both,
for each offense.

(Added Coun. J. 4-9-03, p. 106979, § 1; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p.
38872, § 159; Amend Coun. J. 4-10-19, p. 100029, Art. II, § 94)

8-24-050 Hunting.

   Any person licensed to hunt under the provisions of The Illinois
Wildlife Code, as amended, may hunt or kill game birds in the open
season as provided by the laws of the state, within the following
prescribed districts and portions of the city: upon Wolf Lake and along
the shores thereof; upon Lake Calumet and along the shores thereof; and
upon the Calumet River and along the banks thereof.

   Provided, however, that no weapons shall be used for the purpose of
hunting such birds, or killing or wounding, or attempting to kill or
wound such birds, other than a shotgun, and that such shotgun shall not
be discharged anywhere within 750 feet of (1) any building or structure
used or intended for human habitation or employment, or to be used as a
barn or stable; or (2) the centerline of the right-of-way of Stony
Island Avenue.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined not less than $100.00 nor more than $250.00.

(Prior code § 193-32; Amend Coun. J. 5-16-90, p. 15819)

8-24-060 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, where no
other penalty is specifically provided, shall be fined not more than
$200.00 for each offense.

(Prior code § 193-35 (part))

CHAPTER 8-26
GUN OFFENDER REGISTRATION ORDINANCE

8-26-010   Definitions.

8-26-020   Duty to register.

8-26-030   Initial and annual registration.

8-26-035   False information.

8-26-040   Registration period.

8-26-050   Duty to report change of information.

8-26-055   Notice.

8-26-060   Creation of gun offender registry.

8-26-070   Cooperation with other agencies.

8-26-080   Gun offender community notification.

8-26-090   Rules and regulations.

8-26-100   Violation – Penalty.

8-26-110   Reserved.

8-26-010 Definitions.

   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:

   "Conviction" or "convicted" has the same meaning ascribed to that
term in Section 5/2-5 of the Illinois Criminal Code.

   "Gun offender" or "offender" means any person convicted of a gun
offense.

   "Gun offense" means a criminal conviction of any of the following
offenses:

      (1)   Illinois Criminal Code:

      Kidnaping and related offenses

         720 ILCS 5/10-2(a)(6)

         720 ILCS 5/10-2(a)(7)

         720 ILCS 5/10-2(a)(8)

         720 ILCS 5/10-3.1(a) (if the deadly weapon was a firearm)

         720 ILCS 5/10-4(a)(1) (if the dangerous weapon was a firearm)

      Assault, battery, home invasion offenses

         720 ILCS 5/12-2(c) (if a firearm was used or discharged)

         720 ILCS 5/12-3.05(e) (if a firearm was used or discharged)

         720 ILCS 5/12-4(b) (if a firearm was used or discharged)

         720 ILCS 5/19-6(a)(3)

         720 ILCS 5/19-6(a)(4)

         720 ILCS 5/19-6(a)(5)

      Robbery and vehicular hijacking offenses

         720 ILCS 5/18-2(a)(2)

         720 ILCS 5/18-2(a)(3)

         720 ILCS 5/18-2(a)(4)

         720 ILCS 5/18-4(a)(4)

         720 ILCS 5/18-4(a)(5)

         720 ILCS 5/18-4(a)(6)

      Armed violence

         720 ILCS 5/33A-2(a)

         720 ILCS 5/33A-2(b)

         720 ILCS 5/33A-2(c) (if the dangerous weapon was a firearm)

      UUW

         720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(4) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)(i)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)(ii)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(8)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1 (a)(9) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(10) (firearms only)

      UUW by felon or person in prison

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.1(a) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.1(b) (firearms only)

      Aggravated discharge of a firearm

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(1)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(2)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(3)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(4)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(5)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(6)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(7)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(8)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2(a)(9)

      Aggravated discharge with machine gun or silencer

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(1)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(2)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(3)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(4)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(5)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(6)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(7)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.2-5(a)(8)

      Reckless discharge of a firearm

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.5(a)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.5(b)

      Aggravated UUW

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(A) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(A-5) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(B) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(B-5) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(C) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(D) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(E) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(G) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(H) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(1)(3)(I) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(A) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(A-5) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(B) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(B-5) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(C) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(D) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(E) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(G) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(H) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.6(a)(2)(3)(I) (firearms only)

      Armed habitual criminal

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.7(a)(1)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.7(a)(2)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.7(a)(3)

      Unlawful possession of a firearm by a street gang member

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.8(a)(1)

         720 ILCS 5/24-1.8(a)(2)

      Unlawful sale of firearms

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(a)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(b)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(c)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(d)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(e)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(f)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(g) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(h)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(i)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(j)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3(A)(k)

      Gunrunning

         720 ILCS 5/24-3A

      Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.1(a)(1)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.1(a)(2) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.1(a)(3) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.1(a)(4) (firearms only)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.1(a)(5) (firearms only)

      Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms – school/public housing

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.3

      Unlawful sale of firearms by liquor licensee

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.4

      Unlawful purchase of a firearm

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.5(b)

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.5(c)

      Unlawful use of a firearm in the shape of wireless telephone

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.6(0)

      Use of a stolen firearm in the commission of an offense

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.7(a)

      Possession of a stolen firearm

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.8

      Aggravated possession of a stolen firearm

         720 ILCS 5/24-3.9

      Defacing identification marks of firearms

         720 ILCS 5/24-5(b)

      (2)   Municipal Code Of Chicago:

         8-20-075 unlawful possession of an assault weapon

         8-20-100(a) unlawful sale of firearms

         8-24-010 unlawful discharge of a firearm

      (3)   A violation of any federal, state, or local law that is
substantially equivalent to any offense listed in (1) and (2) of this
definition.

      (4)   A "gun offense" shall include the offense of "attempt"
codified at 720 ILCS 5/8-4, with regard to any of the offenses listed in
subsection (1).

   "Department," "firearm," "CFP", and "superintendent" have the meaning
ascribed to those terms in section 8-20-010.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801,
§ 1; Amend Coun. J. 9-11-13, p. 59869, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-7-18, p.
88803, § 17)

8-26-020 Duty to register.

   (a)   (1)   A gun offender who: (i) resides within the city; and (ii)
on or after the effective date of this 2013 amendatory ordinance is
convicted of, or discharged or released from a federal, state or local
correctional center for incarceration for, a gun offense shall register
with the superintendent within 5 days of either:

         (A)   release, if the gun offender receives a sentence of
imprisonment; or

         (B)   the time sentence is imposed, if the sentence does not
include imprisonment.

   Any person registered as a gun offender before the effective date of
this 2013 amendatory ordinance shall continue to comply with the
registration requirements of this chapter until such time that the gun
offender is no longer required to register.

      (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (a)( 1), any gun offender who did
not register in the time set forth in subsection (a)(1) because,
following his discharge or release from a federal, state, or local
correctional center, he was confined to a residential treatment center,

hospital or other institution, shall register within 5 days of his
discharge or release from such institution.

      (3)   A gun offender who did not reside in the city at the time
when registration would otherwise be required pursuant to this chapter,
and subsequent to that time becomes a resident of the city, shall
register within 5 days of becoming a resident of the city.

      (4)   A gun offender who did not register within the time required
by this subsection (a) because the offender did not receive notice of
the duty to register shall register within 5 days of receipt of such
notice.

   (b)   The form and manner of registration shall be as provided in
rules and regulations.

   (c)   The registration shall include the following information:

      (1)   the gun offender's name, date of birth, and sex;

      (2)   the address where the gun offender resides, and any home or
mobile phone number;

      (3)   any other legal name or alias used by the offender;

      (4)   copy of a driver's license or non-driver's photo
identification card, or any other document to establish proof of address
approved by the superintendent;

      (5)   a photograph of the gun offender;

      (6)   a description of the gun offense for which the offender was
convicted;

      (7)   the name, address and phone number of the offender's place
of work;

      (8)   the name and address of any educational institution which
the offender attends; and

      (9)   any other information that the superintendent shall find
reasonably necessary to effect the purpose of this chapter.

   (d)   The superintendent may photograph the gun offender and require
the gun offender to provide such documentation as the superintendent
considers acceptable to verify any information required pursuant to this
chapter.

   (e)   The gun offender shall submit to fingerprinting in accordance
with rules and regulations promulgated by the superintendent.

   (f)   This chapter shall not apply to any person who:

      (1)   can demonstrate that the person's conviction for a gun
offense was: (i) reversed on appeal or otherwise set aside pursuant to
law, including receiving a pardon; (ii) based on a law that was
invalidated or held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid; or
(iii) judicially determined to not be a basis for denial of a CFP; or

      (2)   was adjudicated a juvenile delinquent for an offense that,
if committed by an adult, would constitute a conviction for a gun
offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 11-8-12, p. 38872,
§ 160; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801, § 1)

8-26-030 Initial and annual registration.

   (a)   For the initial registration, a gun offender shall report in
person at such office of the department that the superintendent may
direct.

   (b)   After the initial registration, the gun offender shall report
in person no later than one year after the date of the initial
registration and thereafter no later than one year after the date of
each annual registration, until such time that the gun offender is no
longer required to register.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801,
§ 1)

8-26-035 False information.

   It is a violation of this chapter for any gun offender to knowingly
provide any false or misleading information pertaining to his
registration information.

(Added Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801, § 1)

8-26-040 Registration period.

   A gun offender shall comply with the requirements of this chapter,
including the registration requirement, for a period of 4 years after
the date of his first registration.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801,
§ 1)

8-26-050 Duty to report change of information.

   A gun offender shall report any change in information required by
this chapter within five days of such change, in a manner and in a form
prescribed by the superintendent.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801,
§ 1)

8-26-055 Notice.

   Every gun offender subject to this chapter shall be given individual
notice, in writing, of the gun offender's duty to register. The
superintendent may cooperate with other agencies, including other
public, private, criminal justice, or law enforcement agencies, to issue
such notice.

(Added Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801, § 1)

8-26-060 Creation of gun offender registry.

   (a)   The superintendent is authorized to collect and maintain gun
offender information obtained pursuant to this chapter.

   (b)   The superintendent shall create and maintain a registry of gun
offenders registered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

   (c)   The superintendent is authorized to make the gun offender
registry available to any other city sister agencies or any regional or
national government- established gun offender registry and may accept
files from such registries.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7)

8-26-070 Cooperation with other agencies.

   The superintendent is authorized to cooperate with the judiciary and
state and other city sister agencies to facilitate the implementation of
this chapter. Assistance and cooperation in the implementation of this
chapter shall be provided by other city departments upon the request of
the superintendent.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7)

8-26-080 Gun offender community notification.

   The superintendent shall post the name and address of every
registered gun offender on the department's publicly available web site,
and shall make the name and address of every registered gun offender in
the gun offender registry database searchable with a mapping system
which identifies registered gun offenders within 1/8, 1/4 and 1/2 mile
of an identified address. The information shall be updated as deemed
necessary by the superintendent.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7; Amend Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801,
§ 1)

8-26-090 Rules and regulations.

   The superintendent has the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations for the implementation of this chapter and to prescribe all
forms and the information required.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7)

8-26-100 Violation – Penalty.

   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, shall, upon conviction, be fined not
less than $300.00 nor more than $500.00 or be incarcerated for a term
not to exceed six months, or both. Each day that such violation exists
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 7-2-10, p. 96234, § 7)

8-26-110 Reserved.

Editor's note – Coun. J. 3-13-13, p. 48801, § 1, repealed § 826110,
which pertained to severability.

CHAPTER 8-28
RESERVED*

* Editor's note – Coun. J. 5-17-00, p. 32564, § 2, renumbered former Ch.
15-30 as Ch. 8-28 and amended the provisions thereof. Subsequently, the
provisions of Ch. 8-28, Liability For Costs of Providing Services, were
renumbered as a new Ch. 1-20 by Coun. J. 7-21-04, p. 28443, § 2.

CHAPTER 8-30
EVICTIONS FOR UNLAWFUL USE OF PREMISES

8-30-010   Definitions.

8-30-020   Unlawful use of leased premises – Evictions.

8-30-010 Definitions.

   Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings:

   (a)   "Controlled substances" means any substance as defined and
included in the Schedules of Article II of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, and cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act.

   (b)   "Controlled substance violation" means any occurrence of
unlawful possession, delivery, distribution, manufacture or cultivation
of a controlled substance.

   (c)   "Department" means the department of law.

   (d)   "Dwelling unit" means a structure or the part of a structure
that is used as a home, residence or sleeping place by one or more
persons who maintain a household.

   (e)   "Landlord" means the owner, agent, lessor or sublessor, or the
successor in interest of any of them, of a dwelling unit or the building
of which it is part, other than a unit of federal, state or local
government.

   (f)   "Owner" means one or more persons, jointly or severally, in
whom is vested all or part of the legal title to property, or all or
part of the beneficial ownership and a right to present use and
enjoyment of the premises, including a mortgagee in possession.

   (g)   "Pattern of controlled substance violations" means two or more
controlled substance violation instances involving the same dwelling
unit and occurring on two or more separate days within any six month
period during the tenancy of any tenant of the dwelling unit. Violations
will be considered to be involving the same dwelling unit if they: (1)
occur in the dwelling unit, in the structure containing the dwelling
unit, or any other structure, land or public way appurtenant thereto,
and (2) are committed by a tenant of the dwelling unit or by an
individual who is on the premises with the permission of the tenant of
the dwelling unit.

   (h)   "Premises" means the dwelling unit and the structure of which
it is a part, and facilities and appurtenances therein, and grounds,
areas and facilities held out for the use of tenants.

   (i)   "Rental agreement" means all written or oral agreements
embodying the terms and conditions concerning the use and occupancy of a
dwelling unit by a tenant.

   (j)   "Tenant" means a person entitled by written or oral agreement,
subtenancy approved by the landlord or by sufferance, to occupy a
dwelling unit to the exclusion of others.

(Added Coun. J. 8-30-00, p. 40306, § 6)

8-30-020 Unlawful use of leased premises – Evictions.

   (a)   The department, on behalf of the city, or the Chicago Housing
Authority on its own behalf, may bring an eviction proceeding pursuant
to Section 2-14-200 of this Code whenever there is cause to believe that
a tenant is subject to eviction under this chapter. In any case in which
a pattern of controlled substance violations is proven by a
preponderance of the evidence, the tenants of the dwelling unit involved
are in violation of this section and an order of eviction shall be
issued against those tenants. The order of eviction shall cause the
forfeiture of and terminate the rights of the tenant to use or occupy
the dwelling unit pursuant to the rental agreement. Any tenant who has
been served with an order of eviction shall be deemed to have abandoned
the dwelling unit, as provided in subsection 5-12-130(e) of this Code,
as of the effective date of the order.

   (b)   In any eviction proceeding the landlord shall be made a party
to the proceeding. Whenever a tenant is found to be in violation of this
section, the landlord shall be liable for the cost of the eviction
proceeding and the service and enforcement of the order of eviction in
an amount not to exceed $5,000.00, plus any fees payable to the
Sheriff's Police of the County of Cook for services rendered in
connection with the proceeding.

(Added Coun. J. 8-30-00, p. 40306, § 6)

CHAPTER 8-32
NOISE AND VIBRATION CONTROL

Part A. General Provisions

8-32-010   Short title.

8-32-020   Definitions.

8-32-030   Rules and regulations.

8-32-040   Most restrictive limits to apply.

8-32-050   Remedies for violations.

8-32-060   Designation of noise sensitive zones.

8-32-065   Designated noise sensitive zones.

Part B. Limitations on Noise from Specific Sources

8-32-070   Music and amplified sound.

8-32-080   Regulated entertainment businesses.

8-32-090   Mechanical stationary sources.

8-32-100   Emergency signal devices.

8-32-110   Non-emergency signal devices.

8-32-120   Restrictions within noise sensitive zones.

8-32-130   Loading and unloading operations.

8-32-140   Construction, repair or demolition equipment.

Part C. Other Limitations on Noise and Vibrations

8-32-150   Limitations on noise not otherwise addressed.

8-32-160   Limitations on earthshaking vibrations.

8-32-170   Exceptions and exclusions.

PART A. GENERAL PROVISIONS (8-32-010 et seq.)

8-32-010 Short title.

   This chapter may be referred to as the Chicago Noise Ordinance.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-020 Definitions.

   When used in this chapter, the following terms have the stated
definitions:

   "Air handling unit" means any device or machine that as part of its
function moves air into or out of a building, and includes but is not
limited to any air conditioner, ventilation fan or exhaust fan.

   "Ambient noise level" means the sound level at a given location that
exists as a result of the combined contribution in that location of all
sound sources, excluding the contribution of a source or sources under
investigation for violation of this Code.

   "Average conversational level" means a level at which normal,
unamplified speech is clearly and distinctly audible above ambient noise
level.

   "District" means those districts established by the City Zoning
Ordinance (Title 17 of this Code).

   “Mechanical stationary equipment” means any single or group of
machines or devices operated by fuel or electric power that does not
change locations in the course of its use, including, but not limited
to, air handling units and refrigeration units. Mechanical stationary
equipment includes equipment on vehicles or trailers, including, but not
limited to, generators, used when the vehicle or trailer is parked.

   "Noise disturbance" means any sound which is audible at a distance of
600 feet or more from the source.

   "Private open space" means any area on private property that is open
to the outdoors, including but not limited to backyards, front yards,
gangways and structures with windows and/or doors open to the outdoors.

   "Public way" means any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other
public thoroughfare.

   "Refrigeration unit" means any device or machine that as part of its
function cools air, and includes but is not limited to any air
conditioner or compressor used in connection with any refrigerator or
freezer.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. V, § 2)

8-32-030 Rules and regulations.

   The superintendent of police is authorized to adopt such rules and
regulations as he may deem appropriate for the proper administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, except section 8-32-090.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-040 Most restrictive limits to apply.

   In case of a conflict between any sections of this chapter, the
provision which contains the most restrictive limits applies.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-050 Remedies for violations.

   (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, a violation of this
chapter is subject to a fine of $300.00 for a first offense, $500.00 for
a second offense committed within a one-year period, and $1,000.00 for a
third or subsequent offense committed within a one-year period.

   (b)   The Superintendent of Police, or, in with respect to Section
8-32-090, the Commissioner of Health, or the Superintendent’s or
Commissioner’s designee, may require any person found liable for a
violation of this chapter to submit a compliance plan, indicating
measures taken or to be taken to prevent similar violations in the
future. The required compliance plan shall be submitted to the
appropriate department within 30 days of the order requiring it, or such
other time period as is set forth in the order. Failure to respond as
ordered shall be an additional offense.

   (c)   If a person has submitted a compliance plan pursuant to
subsection (b) of this section, and the compliance plan has been
approved by the appropriate department, that person shall comply with
the approved compliance plan unless an alternate plan is approved by the
appropriate department.

   (d)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any cause
of action or legal remedy therefor of any person or the public for
injury or damage arising from the emission of noise or earthshaking
vibration in such place or manner, or at such levels, as to constitute a
common law nuisance. Activity which is in accordance with a compliance
plan does not absolve liability for activity in violation of this
chapter.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
11-15-23, p. 6542, Art. V, § 3)

8-32-060 Designation of noise sensitive zones.

   An area shall be designated a noise sensitive zone following passage
of an ordinance amending Section 8-32-065 that includes a finding,
developed in consultation with the Department of Police and Department
of Public Health, that such zone is an area where noise sensitive
activities take place. Existing quiet zones shall be considered noise
sensitive zones until otherwise designated. Noise sensitive activities
include, but are not limited to, operations of schools, libraries open
to the public, churches, hospitals and nursing homes. The Commissioner
of Transportation shall install conspicuous signage identifying such
areas as noise sensitive zones.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
11-20-19, p. 10362, § 2)

8-32-065 Designated noise sensitive zones.

   The following locations are designated as noise sensitive zones
pursuant to Section 8-32-060:

   (1)   East Chicago Avenue, between North Michigan Avenue and North
Lake Shore Drive.

   (2)   East Superior Street, between North Michigan Avenue and North
Lake Shore Drive.

   (3)   East Huron Street, between North Michigan Avenue and North Lake
Shore Drive.

   (4)   East Erie Street, between North Michigan Avenue and North Lake
Shore Drive.

   (5)   North Fairbanks Court, between East Chicago Avenue and East
Superior Street.

(Added Coun. J. 11-20-19, p. 10362, § 3)

PART B. LIMITATIONS ON NOISE FROM SPECIFIC SOURCES (8-32-070 et seq.)

8-32-070 Music and amplified sound.

   (a)   No person on the public way shall employ any device or
instrument that creates or amplifies sound, including but not limited to
any loudspeaker, bullhorn, amplifier, public address system, musical
instrument, radio or device that plays recorded music, to generate any
sound, for the purpose of communication or entertainment, that is louder
than average conversational level at a distance of 100 feet or more,
measured vertically or horizontally, from the source.

   (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., no person on any
private open space shall employ any device or instrument that creates or
amplifies sound, including but not limited to any loudspeaker, bullhorn,
amplifier, public address system, musical instrument, radio or device
that plays recorded music, to generate any sound, for the purpose of
communication or entertainment, that is louder than average
conversational level at a distance of 100 feet or more from the property
line of the property from which the noise is being generated.

   (c)   The limitations imposed in this section do not apply between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. to a person participating in: (1)
a public assembly, as that term is defined in Section 10-8-334; or (2) a
parade, athletic event, or outdoor special event, as defined in Sections
10-8-330, 10-8-332, or 10-8-335 of this Code; provided that a permit has
been issued for the parade, athletic event or outdoor special event, if
required, and the person is in compliance with the permit.

   (d)   The limitations imposed in this section do not apply to
emergency and non-emergency signal devices as described in sections
8-32-100 and 8-32-110 of this Code, respectively.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-080 Regulated entertainment businesses.

   (a)   No establishment holding a liquor license pursuant to Chapter
4-60 of this Code, or a public place of amusement license pursuant to
Article III of Chapter 4-156 of this Code, shall operate or permit
operation of any equipment or device that electronically amplifies sound
so as to generate sound louder than average conversational level at a
distance of 100 feet or more from the property line of the property from
which the noise is being generated, with the exception that an Outdoor
Entertainment Venue shall not be bound by this restriction from 10:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.

   (b)   A business subject to this section shall cooperate with
reasonable requests by enforcement personnel for the purpose of
investigating sound levels produced by equipment or devices that
electronically amplify sound.

   (c)   Where a business has been found liable for two violations of
this section, and has been charged with a third violation, all within a
one-year period, the Superintendent of Police may recommend to the Mayor
or the Commissioner of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection, and to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, if applicable, the suspension or
revocation of the liquor license, the public place of amusement license,
or both licenses. Such a recommendation shall be based on an evaluation
of the severity of the violations, steps taken to remedy the violations,
and the likelihood of successful remediation and continued compliance
with this section.

   (d)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined
not less than $400.00 nor more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Every
day a violation occurs shall be a separate and distinct offense.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
5-20-20, p. 17027, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 5-23-22, p. 47798, § 8)

8-32-090 Mechanical stationary sources.

   (a)   No person shall operate or permit operation of any mechanical
stationary equipment in such a manner as to generate sound having a
sound pressure level greater than 55 dB(A) when measured from a distance
of 100 feet or more from the mechanical stationary equipment, or 70
dB(A) when measured from a distance of 10 feet or more from the
mechanical stationary equipment. The place of measurement shall be a
location that is not on the same parcel of real property or premises on
which the mechanical stationary equipment is located.

   (b)   Where mechanical stationary equipment is located on multiple
buildings, structures, parcels of real property, or premises that have
the same owner and are adjacent to each other, the owner is responsible
for ensuring that the mechanical stationary equipment does not generate
sound having a sound pressure level in violation of this section. The
place of measurement shall be from a location that is not on any parcel
of real property or premises on which the mechanical stationary
equipment is located.

   (c)   The limitation contained in this section shall apply from 8:00
p.m. to 8:00 a.m., unless the mechanical stationary equipment is subject
to other operating hours pursuant to a permit or other written
authorization issued by the Department of Health.

   (d)   The Commissioner of Health shall have authority to enforce this
section.

   (e)   The Commissioner of Health is authorized to promulgate rules to
enforce this section, including rules specifying uniform noise
mitigation procedures for air handling units and refrigeration units.
Any properly maintained mechanical stationary equipment that complies
with rules adopted under this subsection shall be deemed to be in
compliance with subsection (a) of this section.

   (f)   The limits set in subsection (a) of this section do not apply
to sounds generated by a generator used during a loss of normal power
supply to provide emergency electrical power.

   (g)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be fined
not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00 for each offense. Every
day a violation occurs shall be a separate and distinct offense. Any
owner or operator of mechanical stationary equipment found in violation
of this section shall be jointly and severally liable for such penalties
with any other owner or operator of the same mechanical stationary
equipment.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
10-27-21, p. 40504, Art. II, § 3; Amend Coun. J. 11-15-23, p. 6542, Art.
V, § 4)

8-32-100 Emergency signal devices.

   No person shall intentionally sound or permit the sounding outdoors
of any fire alarm, burglar alarm, siren or similar stationary emergency
signaling device except in the following instances:

   (a)   For emergency purposes; or

   (b)   For testing, provided that:

      (1)   each time such a test is performed, the test shall use only
the minimum cycle test time and in no case shall exceed four minutes nor
shall it occur before 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m.; and

      (2)   periodic testing of any stationary emergency signaling
device shall occur at the same time of day.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-110 Non-emergency signal devices.

   (a)   No person shall sound or permit the sounding of any signal from
any stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device, or any
recording or electronic reproduction thereof, intended primarily for
non-emergency purposes from any place in such a manner as to create a
noise disturbance within a residential district for more than five
minutes in an hourly period.

   (b)   No person shall blow or cause to be blown any steam whistle as
a signal for commencing or suspending work or for any other purpose.
This subsection does not prohibit the use of steam whistles as alarm
signals in case of fire, collision or other imminent danger.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-120 Restrictions within noise sensitive zones.

   Within a noise sensitive zone designated in Section 8-32-065 of this
chapter and marked with signs conspicuously indicating the zone’s
boundaries, no person shall create or cause the creation of any sound
through the use of a bullhorn or loud and raucous electronic
amplification, or by use of an object that is struck manually or with a
stick or similar item to produce a sharp percussive noise so as to
interfere with the functions of any school, library, church, hospital,
or nursing home, or other noise sensitive activity.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
11-20-19, p. 10362, § 4)

8-32-130 Loading and unloading operations.

   No person shall undertake or cause the loading, unloading, opening,
closing or other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building
materials, garbage cans, dumpsters or similar objects between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance within a residential district or within a noise sensitive
zone.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-140 Construction, repair or demolition equipment.

   (a)   No person shall use or cause the use of any mechanical
equipment or tool operated by fuel or electric power in building,
construction, repair or demolition operations between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 8:00 a.m. within 600 feet of any residential building or
hospital.

   (b)   The limitation of this section does not apply to any
construction, demolition or repair work of an emergency nature or to
work on public improvements authorized by a governmental body or agency.

   (c)   This section may be enforced by designated employees of the
departments of police, buildings, business affairs and consumer
protection, fire, finance, streets and sanitation, transportation and
planning and development, who are authorized to issue citations for
violations.

   (d)   Any person who violates this section shall be liable for a
penalty of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $2,500.00 for the first
violation; not less than $2,500.00 nor more than $5,000.00 for the
second violation for the same offense within one year; and not less than
$5,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 for the third and each subsequent
violation for the same offense within one year for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
11-26-13, p. 67481, Art. I, § 19)

PART C. OTHER LIMITATIONS ON NOISE AND VIBRATIONS (8-32-150 et seq.)

8-32-150 Limitations on noise not otherwise addressed.

   For any noise source not specifically addressed in Part B of this
chapter, except where exempted or excluded by section 8-32-170, the
following general limitations shall apply:

   (a)   Between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., no person shall generate any
noise on the public way that is louder than average conversational level
at a distance of 100 feet or more, vertically or horizontally, from the
source.

   (b)   Between 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., no person shall generate any
noise on any private open space that is louder than average
conversational level at a distance of 100 feet or more, measured from
the property line of the property from which the noise is being
generated.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-160 Limitations on earthshaking vibrations.

   (a)   In M2 general manufacturing districts and M3 heavy
manufacturing districts, any property use creating intense earthshaking
vibrations shall be set back at least 300 feet from the boundary of a
residence, business or commercial district and at least 150 feet from
the boundary of an M1 restricted manufacturing district; provided that,
there shall be no violation if the property use does not transmit beyond
the lot lines any earthshaking vibrations which are perceptible without
the aid of instruments.

   (b)   In all other districts, any property use creating earthshaking
vibrations must be controlled in such manner as to prevent transmission
beyond the lot line of earthshaking vibrations perceptible without the
aid of instruments; provided that, this limitation does not apply where
the affected adjoining property is zoned M3 (heavy manufacturing).

   (c)   In all zoning districts earthshaking vibrations that create a
nuisance or hazard beyond the lot lines of the source are prohibited.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5)

8-32-170 Exceptions and exclusions.

   (a)   Aircraft and airports. The limits set forth in this chapter do
not apply to sounds or vibrations generated by any aircraft or generated
in connection with the operation of any airport.

   (b)   Stadiums. The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply to
sounds generated at any stadium.

   (c)   Mass transit. The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply
to sounds or vibrations generated in the operation of any mass transit
system.

   (d)   Special events and public performances.

      (1)   The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. to a person participating in: (1)
a public assembly, as that term is defined in Section 10-8-334; or (2) a
parade, athletic event or outdoor special event, as defined in section
10-8-330, 10-8-332 or 10-8-335 of this Code; provided that a permit has
been issued, if required, and the person is in compliance with the
permit.

      (2)   The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply to any
public performance:

         (A)   conducted in accordance with the provisions of a special
permit (not including a permit issued under Section 4-244-161 of this
Code) granted by the city for the conduct of a public performance; or

         (B)   authorized or conducted by another public entity on
public land.

      (3)   The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply to any
fireworks display conducted in accordance with the provisions of a
fireworks permit issued under section 15-4-550 of this Code.

   (e)   Emergency or civic construction, demolition or repair work. The
limits set forth in this chapter do not apply to sounds generated in
construction, demolition or repair work of an emergency nature or in
work on public improvements authorized by a governmental body or agency.

   (f)   Earthshaking vibrations – Construction, demolition or repair
work. The earthshaking vibration limits set forth in section 8-32-160 of
this chapter do not apply to construction, demolition or repair work
conducted after 8:00 a.m. and before 8:00 p.m.

   (g)   Human voices. The limits set forth in this chapter do not apply
to noise created by unamplified human voices.

   (h)   Manufacturing districts. The limits set forth in this chapter
do not apply to sounds measured within any manufacturing district. This
paragraph does not exclude sounds generated within any manufacturing
district that are measured outside the boundary of the manufacturing
district.

   (i)   Planned manufacturing districts. The limits set forth in this
chapter do not apply to sounds or vibrations measured within the
Stockyards Planned Manufacturing District (PMD 8). The exception
provided for in this paragraph also exempts sounds or vibrations
measured outside the boundary of PMD 8 if the properties in which such
sounds or vibrations are or may be measured were located within an
Industrial Corridor (as defined in Section 17-17-0274) as of May 1, 2014
and were not improved with dwelling units as of May 1, 2014.

(Added Coun. J. 11-16-11, p. 13798, Art. II, § 5; Amend Coun. J.
1-18-12, p. 19230, § 2; Amend Coun. J. 6-6-12, p. 28356, § 14; Amend
Coun. J. 5-28-14, p. 81739, § 1)
